This is Jocko podcast number 355 with Echo Charles and me,
Jocko Willink.
Good evening Echo.
Good evening.
So it was about 2009 or 2010, I think.
And I'm in San Diego and that year in San Diego,
whatever year this was, the ADCC trials were in San Diego.
So this is the championship of Jiu Jitsu,
of submission grappling and you have to do,
you have to get qualified to go there
and they have a bunch of competitions all over the world
and the North American qualifier happened to be in San Diego.
So I went of course and I brought my son with me.
So I got my son with me and he's like seven or eight years
old but he trains all the time so he knows what's up.
And they announce who's next up in this one mat
and they go, oh, next up is gonna be some,
blah, blah, blah, some guy versus Jeff Glover.
And I was like, I told my son, I looked at him, I go,
hey, I go, this guy, we're going to that mat
to watch this guy, Jeff Glover.
I said, he's crazy.
And so we run over to that mat, we start watching
and sure enough, this guy, Jeff Glover.
And I knew Jeff Glover because we started competing
in Jiu Jitsu around the same time.
As a matter of fact, I have a sheet of paper
that has the champions of like grappling games
or one of these old school, Joe Morier,
one of these old school Jiu Jitsu tournaments
and the first place winner of the white belts is Jeff Glover.
The first place winner of the blue belts is me
and then Dean Lister's like the purple belt
or something along those lines, but it's pretty cool, right?
So anyways, Jeff Glover comes out and what does he do?
He like, does donkey guard, which means he basically
turns his back on his opponent, goes on all fours,
runs at the dude backwards and engages him
and then 14 seconds later, he's got the guy
and he'll hook in the guy taps.
And my son, who again, he's like seven or eight years old,
he looks at me and he goes,
when you said he was crazy, I thought you meant crazy.
Ah, I didn't know you meant crazy.
So that was it.
That was kind of a moment in that I really remember
about Jeff Glover and then luckily for me
and luckily for everyone in San Diego,
Jeff Glover came down and actually taught Jiu Jitsu
at Victory MMA for five years.
For five years we had Jeff Glover here teaching.
Jeff Glover, he ended up, he's done all kinds of stuff.
He was the Pan Am Champ 2005, the Pan Am Champ 2006,
2007, No Gi World Champion, 2008, No Gi Silver Medalist.
27 time champion of grapplers' quests.
Maybe it's more, but a lot.
27 times champion of grapplers' quest
and we are super stoked to have Jeff Glover here
on the podcast to talk to us tonight.
Jeff, what's happening?
Thank you, Django.
Thanks for coming down.
Also with him is Pete Lettsoce,
which who you probably don't know.
You probably don't know who Pete Lettsoce is,
but that's okay, you might know who Pete the Greek is.
Pete the Greek, another Jiu Jitsu legend.
1999 and 2000 Pan Am third place as a blue belt.
2001 great Gracie Invitational Champion.
2002, Sao Paulo State Champion.
2003 Pan Am Champion, purple belt.
Got his black belt in 2006 under the Carlson Gracie side
of the family and you know what that means.
Carlson Gracie Jr.
2006, Pete the Greek opened his academy up in Chicago.
He's famous in the Jiu Jitsu world,
featured in the book The Gracie Way.
He's without a doubt the best wrist locker in the world,
making sure that the world is not ignoring
that 5% of the body.
Pete the Greek, thanks for coming down man.
Hey, thank you sir.
Thanks, I call.
Thanks, Jeff.
So here we are, two Jiu Jitsu legends in the house.
Nice for me, you know, I love Jiu Jitsu.
I love Jiu Jitsu.
And so it's nice for me to come in here
and just be able to talk about Jiu Jitsu.
But let's talk about you guys
and how you guys got started in the game.
Jeff, so tell us a little bit like where'd you grow up?
What'd your parents, what'd your parents do?
My mom was a nurse and my dad had all kinds of different jobs
and they ended up in Santa Barbara,
which is where I found Jiu Jitsu.
Like 16 I started.
You were 16 when you started.
And everyone thought I was like 12.
Yeah, cause you still look like you're 16 now.
I'm wearing a beautiful face, thank you.
What, how'd you get to the gym?
What happened?
Well, Francia actually moved next door to my mom's house.
Him and his whole Brazilian family.
There was like 12 of them.
They all moved into a house together.
And like next door neighbors?
Yeah, like right there.
The same block that Bill Cooper lived on.
And Bill wasn't even in the scene yet,
but he lived in that neighborhood and was one of the kids.
But yeah, Francia.
So then when he came over and was like,
you needed to learn how to fight, boy?
I went over there to make friends, you know,
and knocked on their door.
That's kind of how it was in that neighborhood.
You know, like it was a nice spot.
It was a nice place to live.
And yeah, I knocked on the door, he opened the door
and like he had a TV playing UFC in the background.
What year is this?
I mean, this was like 1998.
Okay.
1998 or nine.
And yeah, it was just super crazy.
Like he had, you know, the cauliflower,
the shaved head, it's intimidating.
You know, you remember the first time you saw
a really good grappler and the way their head
just kind of looks different, you know, in the ears.
How did that happen?
So did he say like, I teach Jiu-Jitsu,
you're like, what is that karate?
Like I don't want to do karate.
That looks, you know, kind of way.
I mean, I didn't understand a word he said
for the first six months.
All I know is he was just very persuasive
and was pulling and pushing me places.
And I found myself on a mat with people trying to choke me.
And it was awesome.
And then how long was it before you were like
in the Academy taking classes?
Like the first week, that first week.
After that first week, I like told him, I was like,
dude, I want to do what you do.
How long did it, did you realize the power of Jiu-Jitsu
immediately?
Were you just like, why is this happening?
It didn't really, it didn't like dawn on me.
None of that profound stuff was dawning on me.
It was just so cool to have this like mentor guy
telling me what to do that was like telling me
to do pushups and yelling.
Like, you know, he would kick me if I didn't do
the calisthenics work he wanted me to do.
You know, like I'd never had that in my life.
And I was like, I didn't care what it was.
If that dude was jumping off bridges,
I would have jumped off bridges.
But that dude did Jiu-Jitsu tournaments on the weekend
and pushups during the week.
So that's, you know, it was just really nice.
Yeah.
Did he open that Academy immediately?
This is by the way, if anybody wants to know,
this is Paragon Jiu-Jitsu.
This is, this is Ricardo Franjia Miller,
like epic instructor.
And you know, obviously he has Jeff Glover under him,
has Bill Cooper under him, has the other Glover
under him, Tyrone Glover.
So he's made a bunch of just incredible Jiu-Jitsu people.
He's still up there at Paragon.
Yeah.
He has a big empire that he runs and operates out of Ventura
and all over.
My middle ghost.
My middle daughter is now part of the Paragon empire
because she goes to Slo.
Yeah, Chris Lovato.
He was one of the first guys that came into Franjia's
Jiu-Jitsu world with like really good wrestling.
And I used to fight Chris Lovato when I was like 17, 16, 17, 18.
I was like one of the first like men Franjia would let me like
fight.
You know what I'm saying?
And I got some good work out of that dude.
Is that where you started developing good wrestling?
Yeah, him and Tyrone, Tyrone came in, was like, all right,
all these Brazilian names, all these judo names
that you have for these takedowns,
there's wrestling names for those too.
You know, like double legs.
That's not called Bayana, right?
Is that what they called it?
That's not called Bayana.
That's called double leg.
And he's like, and you change levels when you do it too.
You don't just like, band over and grab it.
And yeah, that was it.
I started wrestling early, early, early.
Yeah.
Yeah, your wrestling is like underrated, right?
Because people, you're so fluid on the mat
that people might not recognize that.
And your freaking creativity on the mat is ridiculous.
It's ridiculous.
And we'll get into like where that came from.
But before, Pete.
Yes, sir.
How'd it go down?
Well, first of all, you're from Chi-Town, right?
Yes.
So tell us a little bit about that.
What's going on?
Where are you from?
My dad owned hot dog places.
My dad was the first one to have a Euro since Chicago.
So he'd put it on the spit.
And we basically would flip restaurants.
We'd flip hot dog places.
Well, they're not a little standard.
Like across the street at the malt shop.
So it's basically those type of places, a little bit smaller.
And so my dad would, we'd go and find a place.
You know, we're Greek.
We'd find someone struggling that they'd open them,
not know how to do it.
And we'd just take it over and flip it.
You could either flip it in a few months, maybe a few years.
But one that we kept was called Kings and Queens.
And that was in Burwin, which is right next to Chicago.
It's right on the border.
And there was a karate place next to it.
So my dad, my dad's tough.
He's from Greece.
His parents left him at 13 years old.
He took care of himself since 13.
They brought him to the United States at World War II.
As soon as that was over, he was born in that time.
So he's born in 1942.
They brought him over.
And his dad's like, you know what?
I'm out.
And he left and has left them.
And so then he made it to Chicago.
And he's a tough guy.
So he always wanted to like, but he worked hard.
So he never really worked out.
He's like, I never worked out.
I just worked.
And the karate place next to the place,
and my dad got his black belt.
And he would just do private lessons with the master
and all that.
And so my dad would train me when I was born.
He had me at like at 40 years old.
So he'd be on his knees and fight me all the time
and make me tough.
And I don't know where he learned that,
but it was like war training.
So I started doing that.
And then I went to the karate place, but I didn't like it.
I would just show up for the belt promotion.
I'm like, oh, these kids are getting promoted.
I'll fight them.
And then they'd get promoted, but they have to fight me.
And the guy's like, look, man, you can't come back.
You have to come to class.
And I was good at floor hockey and baseball and stuff.
And I found out that my cousin was like the best ice hockey
player.
His name's Chris Chagallos.
He's one of the best ones.
He's in the NHL.
He lived in San Diego.
And one of the kids was getting bullied.
So the dad's like, no, no, we're going to teach you.
And so they brought me on to ice hockey team.
And I beat up the bully day one.
I was never that big, but I was ready to fight people
for my friends.
And so bam.
You still rated it for people for your sons.
No, but Glover likes me.
I really don't have to fight anyone, but it's just fun.
It keeps you strong.
And so next thing, what happened next?
So what did you do to Glover?
They brought me to ice hockey.
So then ice hockey was cool, but I never really
wanted to play ice hockey.
They just want me there to beat up the bullies.
So then bam, I saw UFC.
It was like 1993 at my mom.
I live at my mom growing up, my dad went back to Greece.
And I looked at my mom and said, that's what I want to do.
And she looked at me and was like, that's what you should do.
That's the only mom in history.
I was like, that looks good.
I was like, this is perfect.
So we just watch it.
And we moved around.
So I went to a few high schools.
The last high school I went to, because we was called Montini.
And they were really strong wrestling programs.
So you see John Jones' wrestling coaches from there.
They have like Izzy, Rusty, all these kids
are top-notch wrestlers.
And so I would go to wrestling rooms and fight them pretty much.
I was like 14, 15.
And I was able to do well against all of them.
But I would never wrestle because it was ice hockey season.
So then finally one of the Gracie's moved in town.
And I couldn't drive yet.
So then my mom's like, yeah.
My mom had a heart attack.
She still can't drive.
My mom had a heart attack at 14.
So I took the car, went to the Gracie's.
And I met Carlson Gracie Jr. I'm like, whoa.
I'm like, this guy's like, he's one of them.
And then he didn't like to drive.
So I became his personal driver.
And then when I would drive him, people
want to kick my butt because I show up with the coach.
I'm always with him.
And then that's when I met Carlson.
Carlson would bring VTOR and everyone.
I was so happy.
I didn't even know there were Jiu-Jitsu tournaments.
I just thought there was pride fighting and UFC.
And then should I join?
I became one of them.
I came to the driver, just drove him everywhere.
And then eventually.
Eventually you went to Brazil, right?
Yeah, eventually.
How far along was that?
So then there's a tournament going on.
I lived in Ohio.
So Carlson Gracie Jr. He was my best friend.
He lived with me and he lived with me and my mom in Chicago.
He lived alone.
But you can't move from Rio de Janeiro to Chicago.
It gets depressing.
It's like I'm knocking on his door because my job
was to pick him up and take him to class.
Like people still have that.
Like a lot of Jiu-Jitsu coaches, they
love to have their students come, pick them up, hang out,
and take them to class.
So I'm knocking on the door and he's not answering.
I kicked the door down.
I'm like, look, come live with me and my mom.
And then he lived with me and I started getting really serious
about Jiu-Jitsu.
I was about 16 at that point.
What year was that?
Around 96.
Somewhere around there, 96, 97.
So now you're training freaking hard.
Hard.
So I'm his driver.
I show up to every single class.
It's Carlson Gracie team.
So we always have people from Brazil.
Carlson Gracie always come visit us
because O'Hara Airport is international.
So before things were different, they could stop.
Well, I think they can still do that.
But were anybody to go to Brazil,
wherever they'd always bring their team and stop in Chicago
and visit a son and have to fight them?
And I didn't even know the returnments existed.
I'm like, whoa, these guys make a lot of money.
No one on my team was broke.
You just seen Vitor come and eating metrics.
Packages.
You didn't even eat food.
I was like, mom, I want to be like this guy.
My dad looked at him.
He's like, oh, my dad didn't understand so much
because I didn't live with him.
But my mom understood.
That's what I wanted to do.
And so 110% behind me.
And I never really had to pay for training.
Because when you train like the way Jeff and I do,
first we start off cleaning them.
First we start off usually is training dummies.
We help with privates.
We help with everything.
So God bless all that.
And I start training.
Shoot, I end up in Brazil.
Next thing you know, I'm at the tournament in Ohio.
So it's my first day of the Purple Belt.
I should go as a blue belt.
And Carl Sreed Jr. says, look, you're
going as a Purple Belt throughout.
I'm like, oh, yeah.
I show up there.
And I smash everyone.
I do a couple of over-under moves.
And I smash a lot of pressure.
I beat everyone.
And then a guy comes out of the crowd.
His name's Henry Metta Morales.
He's back in the day.
He fought Rafael Cadero in the old Valle Tudo things.
He comes out.
And he's like, I want to go against you.
Because I beat a Pedro Sauer guy.
He's from Pedro Sauer.
And then, bam, I'm like, come on, let's do it.
And then I beat him.
Boom.
And then on the whole crowd.
How many hours a day were you training?
No, all day.
I would just pick them up.
I was just there.
Jeff.
He's a lifer.
Jeff, how many hours a day?
All day.
Were you training once you started training?
There's no hours.
Not as much as Pete.
Yeah, right.
No way.
He came after.
Jeff came after.
Because I met on the Met people in Brazil.
And they had Scotty in them.
And then so I had to train that hard because I wasn't accepted.
My team destroyed.
It fell apart.
And so then I met Scotty.
And Scotty had all the information.
He had the digital cameras.
OK, so hold on.
You got Carlson Gracie team.
Because a bunch of people left to make Brazilian top team, right?
So I'm in this tournament in Ohio.
And the coach is the referee is Cristiano Marcello.
He's like the guy from Gracie Mitá.
And he's coaching shoebox.
He goes, tells Carlson to junior.
This guy, if he moves to Brazil, no one will be able to beat him.
They said that about you?
Yeah, he was the ref when I won that.
And so then, bam, I say to Juno, I said, I need to go to Brazil,
dude.
And he's like, sure, he's like, perfect.
He calls his mom and I show up there on my backpack.
And I'm like, what?
What'd you tell your mom?
I said, I'm going to my mom was happy.
How old are you?
I'm about 20.
OK.
My mom was happy.
And what year is this?
It's around 2000.
Jack.
OK.
I go up and show up there.
And I'm in junior.
It's like my brother Carlson Gracie junior.
He lived with me and stuff.
We're like close, like real close, like me and Jeff.
The mom never met me.
And she just gave me, I said, Peach.
Because my name in Portuguese is like a dog.
Like pit bull, pi, pi, she gives me a hug.
I give her a hug.
We didn't know any.
I couldn't understand anything.
I knew some swear words.
But so I show up.
She works at the gym.
Carlson's wife work at the gym 45.
This is Jiu Jitsu crazy.
So I walk over.
They take me everywhere.
This is Peach.
Don't mess with them.
And we meet all the bikers.
They have all types of mutual friends that they know.
They want to say, you know, this is Peach.
Shoot.
I was like, it was great.
And then, yeah, but I showed up to the gym.
And the third day they asked me to teach class.
Because the team fell apart.
And I was like, whoa.
Like I didn't come here for this.
So then I tell Carlson, I'm like, look, I want to train hard.
Because they only had a few guys left.
Most of the guys had stayed left.
Some were like the loyal guys.
But some of the guys had no one wanted.
It's like they didn't go with them because no one wanted them.
So I was like, whoa.
I'm like, I can't stay here.
So did you feel like it was like a political scenario?
It was like a war.
It was like show up to a war after your team just got
massacred.
And they're just like, they're like, whoa.
So what was it that made you not want?
There was one guy there.
There was a few left.
So was it that all the good guys left?
They all left.
There was like two or three of us left.
One of them was so tough.
He was a biker guy.
I think he was like in the Hell's Angel or something.
For sure he was.
He went back to Brazilian top team to beat all them up
and take them back.
He was hectic.
And he was doing a great job of doing that.
But he got in trouble.
And I don't know what happened to him.
But he was actually doing it.
He had one guy at the end willing to go there and beat them all
up and take them back.
And he was doing a good job of that.
But it didn't work out.
Things like that.
Out of context, that whole idea of one guy going
to another place beating people up and taking them back.
I didn't know that.
Yeah.
It's Carlson Best from the name of Pocket.
Street rules, son.
The name is Pocket Tye.
Well, actually I went through with Scotty.
Scotty's like the American guy over there that films everything.
Everyone loves him.
But Scotty always has money around.
So I show up to the Brazilian top team with Scotty one day.
And he was like in enemy territory.
I was like, whoa.
I'm like, I saw all these guys.
It was in the Bank of Brazil.
Laborio's also worked for Bank of Brazil.
So he hooked them up with, they had a country club where they trained.
It was badass.
I walked in there.
I was like, whoa.
There was like 80, 100 people.
You seen like, I was like, whoa.
And then the guy Navaliada, he was the guy with the tattoos.
My best friend there.
Well, because he was the last one left.
He comes up and right away I'm in there.
He stops the whole train.
Because these guys are trying to sell his stuff.
I'm with a bunch of American dudes and the little guys from top teams.
Like, oh, buy this, buy that.
I'm like, what?
I'm not buying no top team, nothing.
And then Navaliada sees me.
Pete's here.
He's the only brother in the room that'll fight with me against all you guys.
You assume everyone will come back to the Carlson Racing team.
He got hectic in there.
I was like, yeah.
And then he's like, don't worry, Pete.
I'm like, all right.
And we just stood there.
And that was when I went to the top team.
And then it was never the same after that.
I could never join them.
So I went to all the other schools.
Carlson said, look, I know you went there.
He's like, you can't go there again.
You can go anywhere else.
So then I went to every other team.
I showed up Gracie Baez, train.
I lived in Oswaldo, I was I trained at Ted today.
I went to every other gym.
No one really liked me, but they respected Carlson, like you here like Gringo.
I was like, you're great.
I'm trying to hear Gringo.
I'm like, all right.
The Carlson Gracie.
I'm like, oh, OK.
I know any Portuguese, but I knew that.
That's how I mean it.
It's about to get heated.
And so Scotty, like.
Was people at every school you went to, everyone tried to murder you?
Yeah.
And so Scotty, Scotty took all the videos of everything.
And then like that's when Glover was being built at that point.
This is when Scotty's making videos like Ringworm and all their videos.
All the stuff.
He had dang fever.
Oh, that's right.
That's right.
Scotty got to make the videos because of me, because Carlson's best friend was Pocketa.
He was the guy that filmed like Carlson's best friend.
He's like, hey, what should you do?
You should film.
So Pocketa filmed everything.
So then they showed up to the house.
They're like, we don't like your friend Scotty.
He films everything he's making.
I was you can't just show up to Brazil and film everyone.
And like we don't like him.
They don't like when you do that here.
Let alone.
Yeah.
So Scotty's blood hair blue.
Especially back in the day, dude.
Because back in the day, it wasn't like now, you know, you can go on BJJ Fanatics and just
get like the best moves of anyone because they're, you know, you can go buy them.
But back in the day, you couldn't buy the best moves from anyone because it was a secret
inside that academy.
No, because hectic because Scotty was from Health Gracie.
Health made them nervous.
Health still makes people a little nervous.
But they didn't really care.
They're like, you know, Scotty is Scotty.
I got to go and I'm like, they're like, what do you think of him?
In Brazil, they talk like that.
They talk like family.
What do you think of Scotty?
I mean, Scotty's like my brother.
And then look at Pocket towel.
What do you think of Scotty?
He's like Scotty's like my son.
Oh, so bam, Scotty got to film everything at that point in time.
Dude, I remember those movies back in the day.
So Scotty and everything.
They were like gold.
At that point in time, they're like, they're telling about this Glover guy.
I'm hearing about these guys back in the United States.
I didn't give a shit.
I was like, no, I'm in Brazil.
I'm here.
I don't care about anyone over there.
I'm like, I was there on one thing.
It was just a smash and like and do whatever I needed to do.
Just as the only one left on my team.
And so Glover was able to like, Scotty had a big part in Glover.
I'll guarantee you, like he not going to tell you that.
Well, he will tell you that like Fran Junior for sure.
But Scotty gave you access to things that like not just me, though, like that's his
hand.
So the Scotty that worked out for people that have no idea that we're talking about.
He's a hospital.
Yeah, Scotty.
But back in the yeah, now he has a hospital.
What's the name of the hospital in Mexico?
Chipsa Chipsa Chipsa.
So he's doing a bunch of great work helping people with stem cells.
If you're interested in that, you can fly into San Diego and go down across the border.
This is way before this is dude.
This is I mean, when I met those guys, yeah, when I met those guys, they were living in
like a like a broken down loft up in San Francisco.
Me and Dean List go up there for, you know, to go out, hang out, train and what not.
Scotty was the coolest person at that point.
And when you want to close people in America, as far as bringing people together and showing
them a good time, like because not too many people were able to do that.
How is he going to bring all these people right?
Whatever we think from all shapes of life.
You're crushing it Pete.
Keep going.
So what's the when did you meet Scotty then, Jeff?
I mean, early he was already sponsoring Tyrone and Tyrone was like, you should look at my
little white brother and Scotty was like, yeah, he's awesome.
And then as a blue belt, I had an OTM patch on my G and you know, you.
So you started competing as a white belt.
You just started getting in there and you were you were so you must have been like 16,
17 years old when you started competing.
Yeah.
I think the first one I did was 17.
There's something about you though, like the whole time that you've been doing Jiu Jitsu,
you've been doing things that other people weren't doing.
You've been doing things that at least as far as I know, it's kind of it's similar to
Dean Lister.
Like my brother Dean, you know, he was doing things that literally people were not doing
and you're the same way as a white belt.
I don't I don't know that early on I was like that.
I think I was doing good job.
I think I was doing Jiu Jitsu right and just with really good motor skills and amazing
balance and it was just normal Jiu Jitsu done in a way that looks different.
You know, Dean was actually doing different things.
Dean was doing things that were like illegal.
You know what I'm saying?
I was taking the back triangles doing bow and arrow jokes, you know, I was doing attacks
on the guard.
I guess I guess you're right because now that I think about a little bit more, you were
doing normal stuff, but damn, you're doing it in an abnormal way because even today you
can go watch your videos from when you were a white belt or a blue belt and you're like
that does not look like normal Jiu Jitsu, the fluidity of your movement.
And you know, you were teaching class yesterday and you were going through this thing where
you're like, Hey, just sit here and bounce back and forth and now and you're just talking
about shadow wrestling.
And so I'm sitting there like just doing what I'm told like, okay, we're bouncing back
and forth and then you're saying like hit a single hit a double and then you're like,
All right, stay in your square.
But stay in your square.
But now get get it down and half guard, get that deep heart.
And you're doing this shadow like there's no other people and I'm watching you do it.
And I was like, Damn, I'm a loser.
I am such a loser because I can see that you're getting better with no partner.
Just doing the moves, doing the movements.
Your brain is just tapped into going through and making it happen.
And I was like, God, I'm such a loser.
And you're literally saying like, this is how you can get better.
This is how you get, I'm thinking, God, I'm an idiot.
How did I not be doing this for all these years?
Going back to the story though, you started competing.
You started kicking ass really early.
I mean, you were freaking, you came onto the scene in a fury.
Yeah.
I mean, for my against my peers, I always did really well.
Hey, how many hours a day?
Which you're like, Oh, P train more.
You must have been training.
Freakin.
I mean, training, like, I think when people say training, they mean like rolling.
Oh, I mean, on the mats.
I mean, I was assisting in every class.
All of Frenzy is private classes, has women's self-defense classes, his little kids classes.
How long a day, how many hours a day were you at the academy?
I mean, it was like, if I missed more than two classes, the whole like free Jiu-Jitsu
thing was over.
So you're, you're, you're doing five classes a day, four classes a day.
Yeah.
Every day.
But I didn't roll.
No, you're not going to roll every single class, but that's the thing.
And I noticed there's another thing about you.
You have a way of rolling that is it's not rolling fully, but it's rolling.
It's like a playful role where you're going through wild positions and crazy things are
happening and that's another thing.
And you know, it's, I used to watch you do this when you taught here and I'd be like,
oh yeah, that's awesome.
Yeah.
And I kind of thought of it as like a cool thing.
And then I just realized when you were here and I was watching, actually I was watching
you and Pete roll and I was like, oh, this is how this bastard's getting so good because
he's trying all this wild stuff against a partner that he's kind of playing with that
playing together.
Yeah.
And that's a different thing.
And I remember that actually Dean and I used to do that.
Dean and I would do that where we're sort of going.
But we're also kind of just playing, but if it's going to work, you can kind of tell
it's going to work.
And if it's not going to work, you can tell it's not going to work, but you don't get
all locked up in one position and sit there across the side for 48 minutes, which there's
not much progress.
You have to play before you can fight.
It's like in boxing.
A boxing coach won't hold paths for you unless you're good at shadow boxing and bag work
first because you're going to fucking hit them.
You know, you're going to hurt them.
As a Jiu-Jitsu coach, I don't want to work with a Jiu-Jitsu student that doesn't have
a good stance.
I'm like, let me see your stance.
And they're like, I don't know what to do with my hands.
I'm like, whoa, you're not, I'm not rolling with that dude.
He's going to hurt me.
And if I roll with him, I'm going to only, only win.
There's no like letting this dude get anything because he's going to do it wrong and hurt
me.
You know what I'm saying?
And then I start feeling bad because I'm just breaking some dude off like as hard as
I can.
And he's all brand new and he doesn't understand.
I'm just trying not to get hurt.
Yeah.
Well, that was another interesting thing you told me one time.
You said, Hey, for me, the easiest people for me, Jeff Glover to go against is like
big muscle guys.
And I witnessed that countless times where like some big jack guy would come in here
and you could see, you know, whatever he's thinking he's hanging onto is not there anymore
like a half a second later, it's gone.
You're all of a sudden slipping over there, slipping over there.
How about your flexibility, bro?
You got some wild flexibility.
How much of that is natural and how much of it is work?
I mean, it's all natural.
I don't stretch.
Never stretched.
No.
God.
That's crazy.
You ever see me stretch Pete?
He just like does like freak show stretches just to show people like how twists his ankles
around.
But as far as like going out there and doing a yoga, we went to like meet some chicks one
time.
How do I was it?
No, I mean, he was more flexible than everyone.
Like we're not falling for that again.
No.
So, you know, Glover is one of those people, you know, if you tell someone, you know, not
to use your strength, but then I tell them not to use your flexibility.
So then, you know, we all have talents that we should.
But yeah, the way Glover and I play is, we warm each other up in case we really have to
do something is for most people.
See, we're expecting to be rolling and then some dude wants to challenge us.
So we're warming ourselves up at all times as opposed to hurting each other.
And then someone walks in the room and then what?
Yeah.
Then we're already hurt.
Like the way we play, he's getting sharper.
I'm getting sharper.
And then if we really got to do it, then we do it.
We're sharpening these things pretty much.
We're not, we're not putting in battle because we already know what it could do.
But we'll keep it sharp.
This thing is pretty sharp.
No, that one's not sharp at all.
Yeah.
So, so Jeff, you're saying, you know, white belt, blue belt, you're kind of doing normal
jiu-jitsu moves.
You're just doing them super fluid.
And again, anybody go watch YouTube or whatever and check out some of this stuff.
Well, what's the first thing you remember kind of, kind of thinking, Hey, I'm making
this up.
This is new.
I'm creating this thing right now.
I don't know that I did it intentionally.
It would be somebody else pointing it out to me and be like, Hey, did you notice you
did this when you rolled?
And I'd be like, No, I have no idea what just happened.
I was just, you know, responding to all the training that Fringio put me through.
And it would just work, you know,
You're a deep half guard.
Is that, I mean, you're definitely known for the deep half guard, especially back in
the day.
Was that something that you were like, all of a sudden you realized you had this position?
I remember you teaching me deep half guard.
And the coolest thing was that you do deep half guard to me and you just like sort of
pose the question like, What, what are you going to do?
Jocko, because you're 225 pounds and where are you going to go?
And you have, you have control of my leg.
It's like your whole body is on my leg, but then I can't do anything.
Was the deep half guard.
Is that, was that the first thing that you started getting recognized for?
As like your own thing?
It was our team's thing.
Frangio used it just as much as I did.
So did Bill.
So did Tyrone.
Anybody who was winning tournaments from Paragon team was using that fucking suite.
But I think, I think what I did was I recognized that all the sweeps are not just randomly used.
It works best when you have an initial off balancing movement.
And I realized at that point that I was doing that I was going into deep half guard and
just trying random moves and hoping they would work.
And often they would.
They would oftentimes work.
I would be like, let me try this random move and boom, the guy would get swept.
Like, Oh, cool.
And then would you load that into your repertoire?
Yeah.
I was like, Okay, now I got another suite.
Well, I, I do it's, I had the light bulb when I realized it was only three sweeps.
I thought that it was like 15, 20 different things I had to learn when I found out that,
Oh my God, I keep repeating these three things over and over again.
And it took me so long.
I used to do like three months.
So it would focus on three months on one move.
Every time I rolled with somebody, I was only doing on a plot for three months.
And at the end of three months, I was, I was fricking, I hated that move.
I felt like a cheater.
If I was, I was so good at it that it's, it wasn't fun anymore.
You know what I'm saying?
When you got a move that just works for you so well, you feel like you're cheating, you
know, doing it to wipe out.
So you're like, how good do I really feel about that?
You know what I'm saying?
I'm sitting the bar higher for myself.
So it didn't get like that with deep half guard.
It got to like year three and four.
And I was still like excited to use it every time I rolled.
And it was making life so easy.
And you started seeing the clarity and the simplicity actually get narrowed down over
time because you thought the half guard was so many different moves, but really you can
sweep them to the left.
You can sweep them to the right or you can come out the back.
That's kind of what it is.
Basically, yeah, it's always going to be a variation of one of three moves.
And they all set each other up.
They're all, yeah.
There's a whole, there's a whole thing that's really easy to learn.
You know, if I can grab your leg, I can show it to you and explain it to you in like five
minutes.
And most guard systems do not take five minutes to explain.
Most guard systems, you need like two hours.
And I can honestly give you the gist of this system in like under 10.
No, it's.
Pete explains it better than I do, to be honest with you.
And it's one of those things that when I, when you, when you were teaching here and
I was like, this stuff is, it's crazy how it is pretty simple.
I mean, when you, you were already to the point when you came here, I mean, you were
a freaking champion and everything else.
So you were not only highly proficient at the move, you're also highly proficient at teaching
it and all the little drills.
Another thing that Jeff Glover has drills, little physical drills that make you better
at the movement that make you better at jujitsu.
Motor skills.
Somebody said that to me the other day.
They're like, Glover, you got motor skills.
And I was like, yeah, I said that to you the other day when you were teaching.
No, what I said was, I feel like if Jeff Glover's watching me try to do one of his moves, he
just thinks this guy's an idiot.
Like this guy doesn't, doesn't have any motor skills.
So you're in this competition mode.
So now we're talking like, what is it now?
The year 2000, 2001, now you're competing all the time, 2002, 2003, you're mopping up competitions.
The other thing that's rad about Jeff Glover is what's Jeff Glover's weight class?
Whatever.
Dude, all those old like grappling quest videos where you're going in against guys that are
300 pounds, literally 300 pounds, 240 pounds.
Back to big giant dudes.
What was the story behind that?
You just didn't give a shit.
Deep half garden.
The bigger they get, the more I use the deep half garden.
Yeah.
Come out the back door.
No problem.
Up on a single.
Or up on any of them.
They all work really well.
See, if not, when you're caught in that quarter guard position, when someone's trying to mount
you, you, if you look at the last ADCC with the super fight of Gordon versus Galvan, Gordon
had him trapped in the quarter guard.
So, Galvan had two options or three.
He could either accept the mount, turn stomach down, give the choke, or he could have went
and did Jeff Glover right there and dive under the leg and went deep half garden.
That's something you got to be kind of crazy to do.
It's the deep half.
The way I teach the deep half garden, you'll never get mounted again.
You don't get mounted and you don't get your back taken.
It's the anti-mount pretty much.
It's anti this.
It's how Jiu-Jitsu used to be when we all first started.
It used to be you go from close guard to mount.
There's none of this knee slide to side control shit first.
It was go from close guard to mount.
When dudes are good at that, it fucking sucks.
That's what Roger Gracie does.
And that's what Gordon's so good at that now.
He's so good at just going straight to mount, dude.
You know what I'm saying?
And that's what I used to have to defend with Franjia all the time.
And Franjia gave up on trying to tell students to do that shit.
Because everybody on the grappling scene, they were all like, oh, knee slide to side mount.
And he was like, that's whack.
Go to mount.
And people were like, that's harder.
And he's like, at first it's harder.
But the end results dog, you get a mount where the submission is just right there now.
It's like a checkmate type mount.
And he was like, whatever.
Nobody wants to listen to me.
And we were at the whole community.
We were all like knee slides, knee slides.
And now Gordon's showing you guys knee slides.
Mount.
Right?
So this deep half guard is designed to deal with that shit.
To get under that mount.
To deal with that shit right there.
That's how Glover's able to beat these big guys because he can either stay there and
get trapped and mounted or he can dive under and diving under scary because they're right
above you.
And if you don't know what you're doing right there, most people try it and then they kind
of get a, was it claustrophobic, right?
Yeah.
They get claustrophobic and bail on it.
They panic and they bail on it.
They panic and they're like, it doesn't work.
It doesn't work.
Yeah.
Well, that's another thing you and I were talking about the other day, Jeff, is when you first
try a move in Jiu Jitsu, it's not going to work.
I mean, it may work like 10% of the time, but it's the same thing with anything in life.
When you incorporate something new into your life, if you're working at a, at a business
and you incorporate some new process at first, it's going to be less efficient.
That's the way it works.
So you're going to, no one knows exactly how to do the process or everyone's kind of messing
it up and they're taking a little longer.
And so you're going to get less efficient when you first start trying a new process
in a business.
Same thing in Jiu Jitsu.
You bring some new moving to Jiu Jitsu.
It's going to make you worse for a while.
And I said for a while, you were like three months because you were teaching a whole
another series the other day.
And I said to you, I'm like, bro, I'm going to get my back taken a lot when I start doing
this.
And you go, yeah, you are.
And I was like, yeah, cool.
That's the way it is.
And I got done.
I was rolling and I was like, I got my back to back taken.
And you were like, yeah, you're going to keep getting your back taken for a while.
And I remember there was a position I used to teach and and I would teach it to people.
For me, it was like my main go to position of how to pass guard.
And it was like kind of unstoppable.
And I would teach it to people and then I'd see them try and do it.
They'd be all awkward and all off balance and stuff.
And I would say to them, they'd be like, I feel like I'm going to get swept and they
would get swept.
And I'd say, hey, man, you got to get comfortable in this position first.
Like it's going to take you a while to get to where you can just be here and just be like,
you know, nothing's going to happen.
You can't try and go me.
You can't arm lock me.
You can't sweep me.
I'm totally comfortable here and I'm going to pass your guard.
But it but it takes a while to get used to that stuff.
In order to do that, you got to put your ego in check.
I remember watching you, Jeff, for all you like, people are just getting, you're just
giving up a rear naked choke.
80% of the time you get out 20% of the time you tap and you're like, cool, let's roll
again.
Yeah.
Yeah, well, I was getting paid in those classes, you know, but that if you're not doing that,
you're not going to improve.
Yeah.
I don't, you know, I like, I like making the students truly believe they got coach.
You know, like, like, like they go home.
They're like, did I tap coach today?
You know, he legit like tapped hard and everything and he was struggling, grunting.
And I don't take time to explain to them whatever they want to ask.
Did I really get you?
I'll be like, you know, explain it to them.
But if they don't ask, I let them go home.
I'm not going to be like, I let you by the way, I let you get that by the way, just so
you know.
Like, I'm like, done.
Good job today, dude.
You got to match their energy almost match their heartbeat.
If they start going harder, we start going harder.
All right.
So when did you, what was like the highlight of your competition career, Pete?
Well, then, well, okay.
So let's see, besides Rafael Lovato and myself, there wasn't too many Americans pretty much
going to Brazil.
Rafael would come out and visit all the time.
His dad was cool.
He wouldn't live in Brazil, but he'd come out and so he, him and I were able to do well
out there.
And so they put us in the great kid, we would usually get ripped off in tournaments.
Like we would, I would compete more than him, but the Brazilians liked us because we would
get ripped off.
There was no internet so much.
And, you know, like the last time I competed in Brazil's against Brawlio Stima and it was
like my fifth match of the world.
And I should have won, but then they gave him a time out.
They called the referee.
He brought over an oxygen tank right after I deep half guard swept them.
I dumped them, then they called a time out.
They brought him all the action.
They put him in his best move.
I didn't even know what was going on.
I was like, Carlson came out.
He made it switch to ref.
He threw out one of his cousins, the referee.
And then it was, it was, you just realized like in these type of games, you could get
cheated.
They fed him some assaí.
In the tournament, basically we didn't, in those tournaments back in the day, you just
stuffed someone in a position you were good at and the time would run out and you'd win.
That's how I wouldn't have the flash.
He wins because I would beat people that I wasn't supposed to beat.
I would go to Brazil and beat all those guys and they would never expect that.
And I don't even remember most of their names, but there was a lot of good ones and all the
Brazilians knew me.
And then when I came back to Chicago, Carlson had moved to Chicago, but the level was low
because in Chicago.
Yeah.
It was just like regular people training.
And so I, BJ Penn had called me.
He's one of the friends at Scotty and I went over there and I was, I was living with BJ
Penn and that, that was a good highlight in Hawaii.
In Hawaii.
And he looked, oh, okay.
So I lived over there for a while.
So I'm actually Pete, the Greek, Brazilian, Sicilian, Peruvian, Hawaiian.
There's a whole bunch of them.
So I lived over there in Hawaii in Hilo.
And Jack Daniel, Jack Daniel Hill.
He was another guy that lived over there and trained like six hours a day.
Yeah.
It was just me and BJ Penn all day, all day.
So he'd pick me up and, you know, Hilo is one of those towns where it's adrenaline rush
all the time.
It's raining and stuff.
And we're just having fun cruising and have like Randy Couture come in and teach us how
to wrestle.
And he fought Leota Machida at that time.
So how long are you, how long are you living in Hawaii for?
For a while.
Can you put that in some kind of a time perspective?
I'm still there.
Like if you go there, they remember me like, look, I'll just be honest with you.
I went back to Brazil first time in 16 years.
It was in the middle of COVID.
Everything was shut down.
I'm talking about everything.
No one on the street.
I brought gorilla hands out there.
He's from Brazil, but he never been to Rio.
And he went with me and they just let me and Hanzo out on the street and we actually bumped
into each other.
Just me, Hanzo and gorilla hands.
I have pictures and all of Rio, only people out in the street.
And they thought I still lived there.
They think I'm related to Hanzo.
Like they think I'm one of them.
That's how it is when I visit here.
But you look like Hanzo.
Yeah, or they look like me.
I don't know.
We all look like each other.
Do you still live here?
You move back.
So they have no idea I ever left.
You know, wherever I go, they still think I live there.
If you go to Hilo, you know, Pete.
Even here, I'm kind of still, Jeff and I are still here, even though we're not here.
And so we leave that type of presence because we loved jujitsu.
Okay.
So for some unquantifiable amount of time, you're living in Hawaii, you're training
with, with BJ Penn.
And this is when BJ Penn is like fighting.
Yeah.
Just one, he just beaten Matt Hughes, licked the blood off his face.
Which also, let me just throw this out there too.
You were talking about how sometimes the tournaments in Brazil could be very tough for an American
to win.
BJ Penn went down there and won.
But he's not even on the video.
So if you get the video from that year, that match isn't even on the video.
You know what I mean?
So it's like, they kind of like put that, and Hughes to train at Gracie Baja.
He's from health Gracie, but the same thing happened.
He got there as a hundred black belts on the mat.
The first day everyone trained with him.
The second day no one wanted to even touch him.
And so then he went over to another team, Carlson Gracie Blackwell, Novo Nyal.
Pedoneras.
He goes over there as a purple belt.
And then he tells me, Pete, I walked up in there, I was nervous.
He walks up the stairs and Hobbs and Moore was one of their best black belts.
He's like, I trialed him day one.
And they were all like, they were surprised.
He was a purple belt.
And then they were like talking shit.
They're like, oh, it was lucky.
He goes back the next day.
He's like, I trialed him again.
And then they gave him a brown belt and they're a competition heavy team.
And so they needed someone at black belt in the weight class.
They put him and he won.
And then I was there at purple belt the next year.
I think he won 2000.
So 2001 I was at purple belt.
They weren't going to let that happen again.
They're like, no way, dude.
They're like, you're not coming here and doing that again.
But people like you, if you're supposed to lose and you win, it's just like, if you're
a crowd favorite, people like you.
It doesn't matter what the medal says.
And I won a lot.
But then in Hawaii, it hurt my neck.
How'd you hurt your neck?
So we went to Sandy's beach, which is like a notorious beach for hurting people.
And BJ panning them.
You see, he'd leave me in control a lot.
When he'd go to Japan and stuff, like he would tell his brothers, Pete's in charge.
So it left me like, it's hilarious.
So you know, after some time, I ended up at this beach and I hurt my neck.
So that took me out of the competition scene.
There was one.
What happened to your neck?
I got slammed on my, I got body surfing.
I had no idea breakneck beach.
I had no idea that the most dangerous beach in the world.
They didn't tell me they're not going to tell you.
You know what I mean?
It's like, you're in a, you're in a room full of staff.
No one tells you.
So I was like, yeah, you know, just lay on that couch.
So it's the same.
That was a jab at me.
I don't know if you guys knew that was a no side jab at me.
He thinks all my couches have ringworm and staff on it.
Fuck you, man.
He didn't train on me, but MMA people, when you go to their house and you sleep on one
of their couches, like it's like a joke.
They're like, yeah, you can stay here as long as you want to stay on that couch.
It's like a joke.
Cause you know, like day four, dude's just going to be itching everyone.
Wow.
I haven't had ringworm or staff in years.
No, man, saying it, Jeff doesn't do MMA.
It's crazy.
MMA fighters from back in the day.
I'm not telling, Jeff is clean and he's a, he's a great friend.
He's a conservative American.
Well, I've personally witnessed Jeff kick people off the mat for doing whatever kind
of stuff that, that was a non hygienic.
Jeff's great.
So what was the injury to your neck?
So I get slammed on my neck and I was like, fuck dude, I thought I was paralyzed.
And I, man, those little guys, I heard some people laugh and I started getting pissed.
BJ Penn grabbed me out of the ocean cause they think it's funny.
Like if you, if you get hurt at first kind of, and not being hurt, you know, end up being
like injury.
There's an entire series of movies called jackass, which is literally about that right
there.
And my friend came up to me and he's like, you know, anytime you want to come back here,
we'll build a house for you.
They're just like, they're happy that took it like a man because most people are going
to be, and I still stayed there for months, like four or five months.
Did you get surgery?
Did you get a neck brace?
What was that?
Yeah, it was just, it sucks so bad.
I ended up taking my fight against.
Did you get numbness in your arms?
Oh, it was, it was fucked up.
At first when I got hit, I was completely numb.
I thought I was paralyzed.
I was like, I hit it and I was like, whoa.
And then I usually shake something off.
I was like, whoa.
Like, whoa, I'm paralyzed.
This sucks.
I'm like, this sucks.
And I kind of like started accepting it.
And then I thought about, well, one girl when I was 18 years old, I traveled to Cancun,
one of my best friends, she died in an ocean undertow and they call me crying.
Like we lost an ocean.
I go out there, I find her.
Just when I was 18, we were on the news and everything in Chicago came back.
Anyways, first thing I thought of when I thought of her when I got paralyzed, I thought
of her, I was like, whoa, I was like back in the ocean again, like fuck, I'm paralyzed.
This sucks.
And I heard these fuckers laughing.
And then I felt the pain in calm.
It was the best pain in my life.
It was like real pain.
I was like, and I look at BJ Penn.
I'm like, I'm hurt, my friend.
He's like, he looks at me, grabs me up.
He felt like bad.
He felt so fucking bad.
And he grabs me out and his friends didn't know any about it.
I used to smash them all day.
It was like purple belts, just random Hawaiians.
I'd smash the shit out of them.
They were so happy.
Random Hawaiians is great.
I'm just saying, I was there for BJ Penn.
I wasn't there.
Like these guys are just like adrenaline dudes.
Like they're the type of guys that show up when you win and they run when you lose.
You know what I mean?
And he knows that I'm talking about BJ Penn, my good friends.
So it was like those type of friends.
They weren't like top-notch friends.
So now you can't, how long before you train?
I go back to Chicago.
I'm pissed.
I was Pete the Greek, Brazilian Hawaiian back in Chicago.
I was like, fuck.
Carlson has lost his team.
He was like, fuck.
We became best friends.
We were just like, whoa.
We're like, we need to gather ourselves.
Like he's on the phone calling like the shoot box coach, which was the other best team that
hated top teams.
Like telling him how to dismantle everyone.
He's like, yeah, if you're fighting like this guy, be nice to Minotaro.
Because he wasn't a bad guy.
But he just telling him how to dismantle these people and call him up.
And it was just funny.
Carlson was great.
And we would study MMA videos every night.
And not like, like, however, how Jeff and I studied Jitsu, we study MMA and we watched
Fedor and everything.
I had Carlson, what do you do here?
And you stop it and explain it.
And then I start learning.
And then we met Stefan Bonner.
Stefan Bonner walks in as a blue belt.
And like Carlson, like fuck it.
Just put this guy to fight, you know?
Big guy, strong guy, tough guy.
We taught him to Kimura.
And UFC calls up.
We're like, hey, put him in.
Because Carlson, like that type of person, like people that think are really big, Carlson
was talking to him like a kid, like Dana Weich, you know?
Put him in.
And Stefan changed the whole damn game.
Well, of course, VTOR did before, but UFC got boring until Ultimate Fighter came out.
And then that's why Dana Weich and all of them, they love me.
And when Dana Weich comes to Chicago, he takes Gibson's.
Every time he shows up, he gets a wine from my friend from Pete to Greek, like automatic.
Like he's had him like 50 times.
So we go in there, Stefan, like blue belt, knows one move.
It feels like the fight of whatever, the sentry against Forrest Griffin, because when you
fight against Carlson guys, you have Carlson staring at you.
So he's like, he's not a mean guy, but he's a spiritual guy.
So it's like, you're just like, fuck, I'm fucked.
You're fighting that guy.
You'll find the whole history.
It's everything.
And Stefan, he knew enough.
He did the Golden Globes boxing, knew the Kimura, and he was strong.
If you grab that damn Kimura, your arms getting ripped off.
And he did that.
He changed the whole game.
The UFC went from rags of riches.
They were dying.
Now everyone watching it again.
UFC's huge.
People are buying paper views.
And that's what I did when I was in Chicago.
And Miguel Torres came too.
We helped him out.
And then he won the WEC.
And that's when Dominic Cruz took over his weight class.
So it's all related.
And then I became from the Dominic Cruz's.
It's all like, those are the smaller guys.
Those are the smart guys.
When did you open your academy?
So I had surgery.
Mark Coleman, I'm over there at Cobra Kai.
Because for the Ultimate Fighter, I was like their bodyguard.
It was funny.
I'm not a big guy, but they like me.
So Stefan invites me.
And so all the guys, Chris Lieben, they're all there.
And I'm in the limo with them.
And it was for the Ultimate Fighter Caesar 1.
And it was like for the grand finale.
So we're all at layman's Cobra Kai.
And what's his name tells me?
What's that big wrestler?
Mark Coleman.
He's like, hey, Pete DeGreer.
I just had back surgery at Dr. Joe.
It's a guy in Pittsburgh.
And I show up there and the guy fixes my neck.
He does like to dissect me.
He's like a sniper.
He'll fix you.
So I go there.
And I'm like, yeah, I'm here for Mark Coleman.
He fixed my neck.
But I didn't want to compete again.
I said, shoot.
I'm like one injury from being away from homeless.
I better open a gym.
It was like I'm looking for shelter.
Like, where do I go?
Who can I trust?
I'm back in Chicago.
Like I was even in Brazil.
Shoot, Rio de Janeiro, Hawaii.
Now I'm back in Chicago with a broken neck.
People are laughing at me.
Like I went and worked in the ghetto in Chicago.
Doing what?
So my friends, they're getting all happy.
Like, we knew you'd end up getting hurt.
I'm like, you fucking assholes.
And you got hurt from the body surface.
You know what I mean?
But it doesn't matter that people see you.
Like you got hurt from that jujitsu.
I'm like, oh, OK.
I'm like, yeah, I'm here to work a job.
And so I got my real estate license.
And I was working for my friends doing section eight housing.
So I'd pick up people from the projects.
They would turn on the products and bring them to apartments.
And I was like, fuck, dude.
I don't want to do this.
And then it was in bed.
But I'm a jujitsu guy.
Like I'm having to like really, like I'm like,
I don't want to really have to use jujitsu.
I want to like, I don't know what I'm going to do.
So I opened up this little gym.
Like a real little one.
Glover came.
He was in a sketchy neighborhood.
I remember Glover's first day.
Like the guy comes in.
Glover's on the door waiting for him.
He's like, y'all do tap out?
Because I had a tap outside.
Y'all do tap out?
Remember that Glover?
Wait, that's what Glover said when he walked in?
The guy that seemed Glover outside the thing.
Remember the first day outside my gym?
He remember that.
Because I had a big tap out sign.
So people in Chicago thought that I did.
They thought jujitsu is called tap out.
It's crazy.
So then I opened up this little gym.
Everyone's telling me, you know, you're going to get shot.
I'm like, yeah, right, dude.
I open up the gym and bam, I get my best friends, best
students right from there.
They're so cool.
Because right on North Avenue and Western,
the two biggest streets in Chicago.
So pretty much everyone can get there from the South side
and North side, from downtown, from everywhere.
There's a little gym like 600 square feet.
And man, I mean, my best friends from there,
they knew I was hurt.
I told them straight up, I'm like, look, my neck is hurt.
I'm like, you guys just got to get good.
I'm going to tell you what to do.
I'm not going to fight you.
Just learn how to listen.
And man, we got a lot of students in there.
It was crazy.
Like cars parked outside.
And next thing you know, all my friends
are open up gyms next to me.
I'm like, oh, thanks.
You guys are great friends.
Like you see businesses going great.
And shoot, gym got big.
Kid students, I open up a giant gym.
And things are going great.
Glover then came to my giant gym.
I always have Glover out for, he's always about, I'm like,
guys, we're having a seminar.
Like what did you guys meet for the first time?
Like with Scotty.
That was through Scotty.
Everything Scotty.
I would have never been.
Scotty taught me how to be a California boy.
I was just like Chicago, like cold winter,
that and anything.
I'm like, yeah, I just need to smash and win and fight.
And then Scotty shows you like surfing.
He shows you everything.
How to roll a joint, stuff like that.
Scotty had one of those scooters, like a quick scooter
in Brazil.
And we would just go like, you're going like 40 miles now
on a scooter, he had the first digital camera.
Scotty's like from the future.
Back then.
Now I don't know, because now he's with the hospital stuff.
I haven't spent too much time with him.
But back then he was from the future.
He'd teach us all this stuff.
And man, Hawaii, Brazil, everywhere.
I go back to Chicago.
It's kind of like, it's like a community service.
Like I'm really helping out people.
Chicago is like a barter system.
It's like a third world country.
People don't want to pay you that much.
They'd rather just barter you.
And it works out good because everyone there has
like connections to this and that.
And this guy owns that place.
He owns a restaurant.
You know, if you try and charge him,
you end up getting less.
So you're like, hey, everyone trains for free.
So my gym people pretty much pay.
It's like, here, you don't charge people that much, Jaco.
No, we try and keep it.
We try and keep it so people can come in.
And I don't have overhead like you.
Yeah, I've overhead much lower.
And so it's like, dude, I know if you have money,
I know if, you know, like pay what you think you should.
Like, you know, if there's food in the kitchen,
eat what you deserve.
And my guys understand that.
And I could make a lot more money being there,
but I wouldn't be in Jiu-Jitsu.
Like I'm doing Jiu-Jitsu as service with the Glover,
with the Ritolos, with BJ Penn, all these people.
I'm doing a higher service.
I could be at home teaching white belts.
And they might quit in a few months.
They might win a tournament.
And I can make a lot more money for sure, 100%.
But if I'm looking at it from service,
like we help the whole world.
We're all over the place.
The weed is better in California.
And cheaper.
And legal, right?
Is it legal in Chicago?
That's a big part of it, yeah.
Chicago, you go to the store, it's like 40% Texas, you know?
And yeah, I love Chicago.
I love that place, but with my broken neck,
see I got hit by, okay, so I opened up the giant gym.
Bam, Glover comes over, like who are we doing a seminar with?
Jeff Glover, I'm like, yeah, again,
every seminar is with Glover at my school.
Like, it's just the way it is.
And so we had a couple other ones,
but most of them like eight out of 10 seminars are with Jeff.
And-
The sickest I ever got was one of the seminars
I did at your school.
You took me to-
The Burger King.
You took me to Burger King twice on the same day.
That's not how it was.
Yeah, it was coming out of both ends.
And I was, you know, Pete's like,
you all right in there Glover?
I was like, I hate you, man.
I'm down in this basement, you know?
Like I got a great home back in San Diego waiting for me.
And like this place was here.
And I'm like in Pete's basement,
vomiting, I can just taste the like chicken.
Remember chicken fries?
It's chicken fries.
Oh, damn, I ate that shit.
This is gross.
Oh, it was bad, yeah.
That's when, whenever Pete talks about the shit,
that's all I ever think about.
So, Jeff, that was the closest I ever felt to death, dude.
Let me tell you what happened.
I said, Jeff comes over, I'm feeling great.
And drunk drivers hit me and break my neck again and my back.
And then I was just like,
I can't live here anymore.
It's too cold.
And then I went and lived with Glover.
Glover, would you used to call him?
You were my therapist.
Did I? I don't remember that.
Yeah, you're my physical therapist.
So then I met you guys.
So, Jeff, when you started,
when you started like competing for real,
like now you're like, no,
when you started doing the worlds
and it's like 2007, 2008,
what's your life like at this point?
What's your training schedule looking like?
It's just Jiu Jitsu, Jiu Jitsu, Jiu Jitsu, right?
I mean, the Jiu Jitsu was the only thing
that was not chaotic.
Well, what's chaotic?
I mean, just life, social life, family life, finances.
Where do you live?
Where are you living during this time?
I mean, like, I live,
Joe Stevenson let me live in his place for like two months.
Big daddy.
I mean, I was living all over.
I was living in all these places.
And your whole existence is just a trained Jiu Jitsu.
Yeah, pretty much.
Are you still with Franjia this whole time?
I went between, I started,
this is where I started realizing
that like this one place thing wasn't for me.
That just being with Franjia wasn't gonna cut it.
And Mark Lehman was already a big influence to me,
making those videos.
Mark Lehman was the first YouTube, you know?
And,
Where's Mark Lehman from right now?
He went back home to Michigan.
Does he have a school out there?
Yeah, yeah, he's all low-key though.
And no Instagram, nothing.
He was a beast.
But he was very influential.
And it's cool because I get to say
I trained with Mark and Dean.
Because Mark and Dean were the two big.
It was like who were the best Americans at the time?
It was always Mark Lehman and Dean Lister.
And they fought.
And I got to be,
I've spent so much time with both those guys.
And yeah, I started doing the Mark thing.
And I told Franjia, Mark offered me a job in Las Vegas,
a full-time teaching job.
It was my first full-time teaching job.
And Franjia's school, it was like,
Franjia, can you match what Mark's offering me?
And he was like, sorry, boy, I can't.
If you wanna keep assisting me for free,
that's cool, and I was like, well, I think I'm a man.
So I went to Mark Lehman and when Franjia gave him
my black belt, he tied it around my waist.
And I had already told him, I was making the move.
And in my ear, he was like,
boy, go show those guys how we do the Paragon Jiu-Jitsu
in the Las Vegas.
I'm proud of you.
You know what I'm saying?
He was like, you welcome back any time, boy.
So I started going between those two places.
And actually, that's when I started hanging out
with Rudy.
That's when I met Rudy at tournaments.
And Rudy would, I would come visit Rudy.
And that's how I started making friends with all you guys.
Right on.
You know?
And it was like, yeah.
How many hours a day are you training at this time period?
I mean, I would train in every class I would teach
and I would take Mark's classes, yeah.
So it was still, it was still, until recently,
it was like, you know, four times a day every day.
And eight to 10 hours on the mat.
We take naps though.
How many hours a day are the rotolos on the mat right now?
Like we gotta take naps once in a while.
Frequent cat naps, yeah.
And then they gotta be in nature.
I think nowadays is different training.
Now we do more nature training.
Cause just being with-
I'm doing recovery.
I'm all about recovery now.
Yeah. It's good to be outside a lot.
When you were-
With surfing, like, you know what I mean?
They taught me how to surf.
They got into surfing.
The total was taught me how to surf the other day.
Nice.
I surf with them.
They like, they surf a lot.
When you were training, and like, let's say you were
getting ready for ADCC or you're getting ready for,
you know, the worlds.
How much drilling you doing?
Nothing changed.
All's I, I did everything the same.
I think there was one tournament that I actually had
like a professional coach.
But it was just-
What, like a Jiu-Jitsu coach?
No, like a fitness nutrition.
A guy named Chris Eklund in 2011.
And he had me doing all kinds of shit.
And how'd you feel?
I mean, I, that was the best year in my competitive life.
Yeah.
So he, you stepped it up and then that made you better.
He would, he would like frown at me if I was baked.
You know, he'd be like, yeah.
I'd be like, for bread.
You're making me feel bad for all the times
that I've smiled at you and you were baked.
Yeah.
Like, you know, he would be like, what did you eat today?
And like stuff like that.
And make sure I did like real like weightlifting stuff.
And that year, that was 2011.
And I had the best results that year.
Like hands down.
Did-
But other than that, I never trained hard.
I know, I mean, I trained hard, but I didn't work out.
There was no weights.
There was no, what do you call it?
Stadiums.
There was no stairs.
There's no elastic bands.
There was no box jumps.
Yeah.
But-
And there was no bell.
Those Taco Bell video games.
And just dope ass jujitsu.
Yeah, that's the thing.
And just the best technique, the most like dork about it.
I would go down the rabbit hole of what's next, what's next.
Move after that.
20, 30 move combinations before the dude
will just give up and I would tap him.
Glover trains in his sleep.
I think that's where the magic happens.
Dean does that too.
Like, you know, when he would fight
and we'd all be like, we were all broken everything.
And so we'd all stay in like one hotel room.
And like I'd sleep on the floor, but you'd like wake up
and Dean would be there like asleep,
but he would be trying.
He'd be like, not just his legs would be in a triangle
and like triangle air.
And then you'd see him like roll over.
But when he'd roll over, he would like adjust his feet
and get like a body lock.
Like shadow wrestling.
I'm not kidding.
Like that's where he would sleep.
Like he would sleep.
He'd be doing jujitsu when he was sleeping.
Or like he'd be asleep and his hands
would be like on a rear naked.
Like he'd be asleep like one hand under his head,
but his hands are in a rear naked choke.
So he's just like dreaming of jujitsu and sleeping that way.
I met Dean in Brazil when I was out there.
He'd hang out with my dad and I.
My dad came and my dad's a big strong guy too.
Like Dean, like I'm a runt compared to my dad.
And he just loved me hanging out with Dean.
He's like, ha ha ha.
Ha ha ha.
Your friend is a cool guy.
Strong guy, Pete.
You know, he's like looking at me like,
why can't I be like Dean?
You know, I'm just like, whoa.
So like they'd always hang out.
It was like for like three weeks.
And Dean showed up to Scotty's house.
And that's where I met him.
Because Scotty a little man.
I lived at Scotty's house on the weekend.
During the week I lived mostly at Oswaldo Alves,
which is a little gym where Andre Galvão lived in
and Jacaré.
We all lived in there together.
Andre was a blue belt.
And at that time, that place,
they would lock the door on Fridays.
So if they locked us in, we'd have to stay inside.
There was no way out.
It would be like the door to victory locks
on Friday until Monday.
So me and Glory, I figure shit out on the weekend
if we're living in the little,
it was a little gym, a little bit bigger in here.
So I would leave and go to Scotty's house in Baja.
It's like 40 minutes away.
It was like vacation.
Scotty had his house set up like a hostel.
So all these people would come stay.
They have the mats.
I think we had the original.
He had Dean brought the guys from, I think,
their original friends' years.
And he brought them and Dean wasn't allowed to train.
They wouldn't let him train anywhere
because he went like the year before
and leg locked everyone.
So he was banned from every gym
and he had ADCC coming up.
And I was kind of in a similar situation.
So we just, Scotty had a little thing
right in the living room
and Dean just trained with me.
And he went the first day and lost.
It was Tony D'Souza was also staying over there.
Tony got disqualified for making the guy too bloody.
They disqualified him for being too mean to the opponent.
No one even seen that match.
But Dean, Dean was kind of bummed out.
We went and hung out and we hung out with some chicks
and had fun that night.
And he's like, I'm gonna do the absolutes.
And no expectation.
The winning goes there and just crushes it.
And then I was like, whoa dude, like this is so cool.
Like, that's when, yeah, that's when I met Dean.
He just became ADCC champ.
He was like, he just turned in like national superstar,
Brazil, like after that fight.
And he leg locked everyone.
And then I kind of felt happy about that.
I was reading, I couldn't go down.
I was, I couldn't go down for whatever reason to,
cause normally I would corner him, right?
And I couldn't go down.
And so I'm reading the updates on the interwebs.
In the guard forums?
No, it wasn't on in the guard.
It was on submission grappling.
I think submission grappling.com.
And they're putting, but they're,
it's a translation from Portuguese.
But it's like some kind of a computer translation
that someone's translating it and posting it.
And I remember paid a Pono that in,
in Portuguese that translates to cloth foot.
And so it's saying like the American,
no, cloth foot has the American.
The American in an arm strangle.
Then it says, this American has tubes to his lung.
The cloth foot cannot make him tap.
It was, and I'm like, oh dude, he's waiting.
And then it's like, the American got his back.
I was like, ah, you know, I'm like reading this.
I was in my car, I was in my freaking minivan.
Yeah, I was like in my minivan.
Like, ah, yeah, you know, totally fired up
that he's doing this and ends up with the.
Dean's like a national hero anywhere I go.
Like if we go to Brazil, he's like,
we hung out in Chicago.
He was great.
I just feel like Dean's in there in the bar.
He's like, how does he arm his friend?
He's a great person.
Shoot, he, you guys really helped out Glover and I,
cause my dad, like I said, he's like a strong alpha dude,
but I didn't really grow up with him that much.
I worked with him.
And I think Glover and the Saint,
we have strong moms and stuff,
but like meeting you and seeing how he was doing
really helps us like, right Glover,
we got pretty serious.
Mostly Echo's arms kind of.
We got serious like,
It changed my life.
And we definitely tried to better our lives
from meeting you.
Like that's the truth.
Glover, right?
I'm joking, of course, you know that.
You guys know that.
Yeah.
Jeff, when you, when you,
you always give Dean some, some credit
or a lot of credit actually, when I watched like interviews,
you'd be talking about Dean and you'll be talking about
like how he helped out your leg lock game.
What did that happen when you were teaching here?
You were already leg locking and heel hooking people, right?
Yeah, but I mean, Dean motivated all of us.
And even those who didn't train with him,
we were all like,
What is this guy doing?
Dean, leg locks are bullshit.
Yeah, but Dean, you know.
Best comeback ever.
Yeah, but Dean.
You know what I'm saying?
And Franjia, that was the one,
that was when Franjia was like,
I heard him admit like leg locks worked.
He was like, look, there's this guy, Jeffy.
I was like, why is this American guy?
He's Tapsolo.
I was like, what?
He taps all his leg lock, Jeffy.
You know, he was like,
I'm sorry, I was like, sad day dog.
Fuck.
But you know, it's like,
that Dean made it okay for us.
You know, that when an OG would be like,
no, no, no, no, no, be like, shut up, you grumpy old OG.
This guy's making them, they're legit.
So.
It is true.
Yeah, that's a, what about the game?
Like I'll read about your game.
Like you'll do donkey guard,
which is for anyone that doesn't do jiu-jitsu,
it's gonna be kind of hard to explain,
but just imagine someone that you're gonna fight.
And what they do is they turn around,
get on their hands and knees and like jump,
go attack you with their ass, basically,
is what it looks like if someone doesn't know.
That's freaking mayhem, dude.
Yeah.
Well, it's based off defense.
It's based off self-defense.
I'm a master of people grabbing me.
So you wrap them to grab me.
You know what I'm saying?
I encourage you to grab me in positions
that they think is good.
And my self-defense kicks in,
and it just does what it does.
And I have a heel hook, you know?
It's a combination of like the flying leg scissors technique,
you know, that, and just kind of doing things backwards.
The level of confidence that you have,
I might be unmatched.
I don't know if anyone wants to echo.
I would agree.
Unmatched level of confidence?
Unmatched.
Unmatched level of confidence.
Like no one's even close.
I think it's an unmatched level of confidence
to see you compete and see you just offer positions
to your opponent that seem insane.
I would rather look stupid than look scared.
I don't, I also don't think that there's been a grappler
that is more, I hate to say this word,
but like more entertaining to watch.
Like watch it, like I go watch you,
I go watch you all day, roll Jiu-Jitsu.
I go watch you all day.
Like I told you, I have like videos of you and my son,
like, like, you know, one, one year,
one like the next year, like eight minute videos.
You guys are just rolling.
And I just, I'll just watch them.
Cause it's just, even though you're going against a kid,
I'm like, God, what is he doing?
I'm like, look at what he's doing right there.
But then when you watch you compete the same thing,
it's freaking amazing to watch.
Yeah, thank you.
Yeah.
I've worked very hard to be as good at Jiu-Jitsu as I am.
That level of confidence though, I'm kind of unmatched.
I mean, even like you've been teaching a series this week,
it's like stuff I've never even, well, it's weird
cause you started teaching this series
and you know, I watched you here for five years.
I watched you give your back to people.
I watched you like do these weird positions.
I'm like, wow, man, that's just like a Jeff Glover thing.
And then you were explaining it the other day.
I was like, oh, this is not just a Jeff Glover thing.
It's just that Jeff Glover is doing something
that I didn't understand.
Yeah.
Which is-
I trust my Jiu-Jitsu.
Don't you trust your Jiu-Jitsu?
Sometimes not as much as you do bro, at all.
I trust in it dude.
My coach used to tell me believe and I believe dude.
Yeah.
I believe.
Jeff doesn't reference other people when he does things.
He'll just think of it and do it way cooler.
No, that's like, that's why I say dude,
I feel like an idiot.
Like you're like, oh, don't you trust your Jiu-Jitsu?
I'm like, well not as much as you do bro, apparently.
Cause you're just in there just not caring what happens
and still, you know.
Jeff moves well.
I'm the worst actually.
I think I'm the worst.
People ask me about you.
Every, everywhere I go do my seminars.
They're like, what's it like to roll with Jocco?
And I was telling them like you were always so nice to me.
You and Dean and Echo, you guys are always, you know,
so gentle with me.
I'm so little and like all hard.
And you guys are like, hi little Jeff.
And one time you actually like turned it on
and put me in a Kimura, you know.
And people love when I tell them that.
Like there's no point to that
besides people being like, whoa, you know Jocco?
Like, yeah, he's really good.
No, that's, well I was, you know, would feel like
I wanted to learn how to kind of roll that way
where you learn more, you know.
You guys are all nice to me.
I'm not a good roller and learner.
You're, that's what you do.
And I tried to like get that from you
to be a good roller and learner.
Which is, it's ridiculous.
Yeah, yeah.
It's more fun that way.
No, I can see that's something that
lasts longer.
To this day for sure.
Yeah, I mean, I got like neck surgery.
Why'd I get neck surgery?
If we can Dean Lister trying to choke me
and I'm not tapping.
Yeah, I was gonna say Dean wasn't as nice to me
as you guys were.
Dean would hold me in like growl in my ear and shit.
Look at Glover, he can't get up.
Look at, by the way, everybody.
Everybody, come here, look at.
By the way, you ever seen a man get out of this?
Watch, Glover, try to get out.
Watch, look, he can't.
Look how weak he is.
He can't get out.
That's like being nice compared to what Dean has done.
I've seen you, I know.
I saw that shit.
It's like a test in humiliation, right?
Yeah, I gained a lot of respect for you.
How can I do Jiu-Jitsu?
I have 225 pounds, I lift weights every day.
Freaking training Jiu-Jitsu every day.
And I'm a grown man.
And Dean would put me in positions
where I could not move or he could not look,
could not move my body in any way.
How's that happening?
No, I remember you'd say that.
And he's like holding me with one.
And he doesn't lift weights.
No.
You're like, Dean never lifts weights.
And he would say stuff like that.
He'd be like, you need more CrossFit, John Coran.
Where's your CrossFit?
I thought you could squat a lot.
What are you doing?
How's that squat working out right now?
That's perfect.
That's so good.
We all say that.
Yeah, he did that shit to me too.
It's good, but it's not good.
But so speaking of like the Dean Lister Jocko thing,
because I will say thankfully,
I got to be Dean Lister's guy.
In those years when he was becoming a champion,
I was the guy, I would train with him every day.
We train two hours, three hours, four hours a day.
You need to have someone like that in your life.
You had Bill the grill.
Yeah, that's right.
That's your guy.
So anybody that's doing Jiu-Jitsu,
you need to find that guy.
And the only, we talk about the play for rolling,
and look, I just talked about Dean.
Like humiliate, and believe me, he'd humiliate me.
Any day I'd get a position on him,
bro, I would go twice as hard humiliating him
and having fun with it.
Payback's a bitch though.
But for Jiu-Jitsu, you got to find somebody,
or like, it's probably going to be one person.
It's hard to even find more than one person like this.
But someone that's going to be your like true brother,
teammate that you're going to roll with,
you're going to learn with, you're going to work on stuff,
you're going to stay after, you're going to drill stuff,
you're going to get tapped out by each other,
you don't care.
It's just like that.
You had Bill the grill.
How'd he come into the scene?
Well, he just, he did, you know?
He just started showing up.
How far behind he?
He's five years younger.
He was 13.
He was 13 when he started,
but we had him in the adult class.
By the time he was 15,
he was the Purple Belt National Champion,
breaking off adults.
Him and Chrome Grace,
he made it to the finals of a tournament.
They were both 15 years old.
Tapped eight dudes in the way to meet each other
in the finals.
And it was like, you know,
like dude, kids can be really tough.
Oh dude, I had that conversation with Lovato,
Junior, we were at ADCC.
Cause he was like 17.
He was actually, I know he was 17.
I don't know how old I was,
but I was like 20.
I was maybe even, I was a grown,
definitely a grown man.
And I was like, dude, you beat me.
He goes, I said, dude, you beat me.
I said, we were Purple Bucks, you beat me.
And he goes, I beat you twice.
Oh, he beat me in the weight class
and he beat me in the absolute, bro.
And I was like, hell yeah, that's a 17 year old.
I don't remember how he beat me in open,
but he swept me.
Like, you know, sometimes you get swept
and you're just like, man,
I hope no one got that on video
cause you feel real ignorant.
You like landed on it.
Yeah, he just did like one of those sweeps to me
that I was all just dumb.
And, you know, it was just awesome.
But yeah, a guy that's young, you know,
I don't care, like a 17 year old can work out a lot,
but he's not gonna be,
he's not gonna have man strength yet, you know?
And that was bad ass Lovato just retired.
But man, we made it two rounds at ADCC
against the best in the world.
It's hard for me to talk about Lovato.
He's a good dude.
He's just.
He just came to my gym.
It's just so much to say.
We met him from Scotty too.
Yeah, yeah.
Good friend of mine.
There's another one, OTM.
I would see him at every tournament.
Yeah, we were bros.
Those got, well him, you,
you guys were just competitors.
He would go train with Lehman a lot.
A lot of people would make their way to Vegas
to spend time with Lehman.
And I would run into them there
cause Lehman hired me as his Jiu-Jitsu teacher
for two and a half years.
How many classes a day were you teaching there?
Like, you know, a full ton thing.
Like I was doing here like four a day.
I almost had that job too.
It was a good job.
Which one, Lehman job?
Lehman job, but I went to Hilo instead.
Cause what I used to do is this.
I used to stay in Vegas Monday through Thursday
and then drive over to Los Angeles
just after I got back from Brazil.
I would drive over to Los Angeles
and train at Eddie Bravo's school.
And that's how I met them.
Joe Rogan, Eddie Bravo, Tate Fletcher.
It was in the bomb squad.
I had my friend Rob Kamen.
He's the Dutch kickboxer and they're over there.
And so, cause in Vegas, the hotel's like 40 bucks a night.
I'd stay in Harrah's and the weekend like 300.
I'm like, oh, I'm going to LA.
I would say it's Scotty's brother's house, sometimes Cade,
which was.
I also used to live there.
So when Scotty left Brazil,
he became like the Los Angeles guy.
So anytime we go to LA, we hit up Scotty.
And Scotty knew everyone and everything and shoot
and Glover, that's when I got hurt.
You know, I was, I wanted to be an MMA fighter.
So I was more interested in like, I'm like, you know,
I'll put the metal aside.
What was your weight?
BJ Penn, I was a lightweight, light and middle.
When did you guys see the no G versus the G?
Like at what point did you see that as sort of
what you were going to do?
80 CC, that would be like when,
well, if my coach Carlson, he didn't like the G.
Like, Elio Gracie put him to fight his first MMA fight
with the G and he told, I'll never do that again.
You're crazy.
You know what I mean?
He took that down and that was that.
And then that Carlson,
he never really used the G to use it for the kids.
They use it to warm up.
But the best guy is like Carlson would just grab something
by the neck like this.
It doesn't mean if they were a kid or not.
And if they'd flinch like these,
they'd be like, no, no, you're just jujitsu.
And if you go like this and the kid,
he's like, okay, you're fighting.
He's a man.
Even if they're adults, he's already old,
but he's like this.
And the kid's like,
like a man who grabbed Nick Diaz like that,
he's going to be happy.
Yeah.
Oh, you're about to fight.
You go here.
And so that's how our team was.
And Carlson, he was nicer to the bigger guys.
So I feel like a Rona size can be real nice to you.
If you're like my size, it's kind of like,
you know what, Pete?
Jeff gets the same way you do.
And Jeff gets around to big, big guys.
He gets mean to me a little bit.
Carlson the same way.
No, but I'm just saying like big people,
they give a good presentation as far.
Like Dean, he's an example.
You-
I respect bigger, I respect size.
I'm a little dude.
Big dude scare me.
He likes it.
Whether they know jujitsu or not.
Glover always has big friends, dude.
Some strong, tough guys, dude.
I come around like fuck.
The weird thing about Dean is he's a mutant
because he's still so flexible.
He is.
It's crazy.
It's a weird flexibility.
Dean's special.
He's like the Ritolo brothers, like Glover, like BJ Penn.
He's all special, like, what do you think?
Glover, special people, right?
We're all pretty special.
Jocko, like dude.
Jujitsu people are some of the coolest people
in the world today.
We have the DNA, like it has to be in our DNA
to be a superhero, at least know something of jujitsu.
Yeah, well, there's definitely a threat of like,
it's, you know, they say martial arts, right?
Like it's an art form.
And then you think it's stereotypical artist.
You think like somebody, a rock and roll artist,
like he's a little bit crazy.
Like a painter is a little bit crazy.
A poet's a little bit crazy.
Let's face it, the jujitsu player, if he's gonna be good,
he's gonna be a little bit,
he's gonna have a little bit,
there's a decent chance I should say,
he's a little bit crazy.
Especially like a deep half garter
to go under someone like that.
Yeah.
We have to be.
But you gotta be, you know, when you talk to Dean,
you start talking to him about jujitsu,
he knows weird things about jujitsu.
It's like you were saying about Glover the other day.
Like you asked Glover some questions,
some detailed question about some weird section of jujitsu
and all of a sudden he's talking about something
and you're like, how do you know that?
How's it possible that you know that?
That's the way Dean is.
Have you ever asked Dean like,
if you say Dean like,
hey Dean, I'm having trouble with this triangle.
And he'll say what kind of triangle?
And you say, what do you mean?
And he'll say, well, there's nine types of triangles.
And then he'll tell you what they all are
and tell you all the specifics about it.
And the history.
Dean needs a book like that.
I think like he has some pretty cool stories.
Bro, let me tell you a story about Dean.
We were at an event and we were doing some jujitsu,
like presenting basic jujitsu kind of self defense
to a few hundred people.
Yeah.
And he's showing a way to escape someone's like bear hug,
right?
Basic jujitsu or basic self defense.
So you grab a bear hug and he's showing,
oh, you put the one hand in front of the face
and you put the other hand underneath that one
and you can make space and you push the person away.
And so he shows it a couple of times,
this hand goes here, this hand goes here,
you push him away, make space, boom.
And he goes, any questions?
And a guy in the audience says,
hey, I have a question.
Dean says, yeah, what's the question?
The guy says, I only have one hand.
And he holds up like he's only got one hand.
What should I do?
And Dean without missing a beat,
like just instantaneously goes,
oh, if you only have one hand,
you put this hand here, you use your shoulder.
He's like had the ultimate solution for a person
that only has one hand that's doing jujitsu self defense.
Like that's some next level knowledge.
You know what I'm saying?
He can improvise because of the amount of knowledge
he has when he improvises, it's not bullshit.
Yeah, that's the weird thing.
It didn't even, he answered it so quickly.
He didn't even need to, you know,
I would need to be like, well, come on out here.
Let's look at it.
Let me look, let's go through it.
Dean like knew what to say.
No, he's good.
He doesn't know how to not say anything else.
It was freaking crazy.
Jeff, what injuries have you gotten from jujitsu?
All of them, you know.
What's the worst ones?
I mean, I had a back surgery,
but I can't even say that that happened from jujitsu.
The injury itself, I don't know where that happened.
I don't know how that happened,
but I had like, what'd you have,
my good discrepancies, what I had, you know.
So they pulled some discs out,
wearing your back, lower back.
Yeah, my lower back.
And that was the most miserable,
long chronic pain I've ever had.
And was it like the pain that people get down their legs?
Yeah, pretty typical.
Jeff was crawling around his house.
No, I was crawling.
It was to the point where I was, I would wake up,
cry for like an hour, you know, crawl into the shower,
and then crawl back to bed,
call one of my friends to come feed me.
I mean, it was just horrible, you know.
That must be you texted me one time.
Remember dude, I was like,
Choco, help me.
Somebody help me do my back hurts, I don't know how to.
I know when Jeff Glover texted me.
I know shit's getting serious.
It's probably like somebody help me.
It was bad, dude.
I was eating advils and shit,
cause I don't want to take like, I don't know.
I don't want to take like pills.
Yeah.
I was like, I'll take the Tylenols or whatever.
How long ago did you get that back surgery?
That was in April.
And how's the recovery?
It's good.
I'm back to, I mean, I mean,
Choco, I wasn't even teaching classes.
I couldn't, you know, I couldn't do anything.
Like I'm back to, like I didn't want to be able to roll again
and I'm rolling again.
I was like, I was like, listen doc,
I'm not trying to get you to fix me to the point
where I win world titles, doc.
I just want to be able to like be on the mat
and show a move to somebody without crying, you know.
And now I'm at the point where I'm like,
shit dude, should I take matches?
Like nothing hurts anymore, man.
My surgeon is a jujitsu guy.
He's one of Frenzy's students.
And you know.
And would he do a discotomy?
Micro discotomy.
So he pulls some little disc out,
get it away from your nerves.
Yeah, rupture disc, yeah, something like that.
Jeff took pictures of it.
Yeah, no, they recorded it.
They took a whole, they recorded it.
He showed like a little, looks like a little teeth.
The doctor was just so kind to me, man.
He, you know, he was like, you know,
see you tomorrow at six a.m. for surgery.
He's like, what?
Doesn't take a week or nothing?
He's like, no, tomorrow.
See you there, got it.
And just got it done.
And how long did it, did the relief was like instant?
As soon as I woke up from anesthesia,
I was like so happy.
Were you scared about getting back surgery?
Not at all.
You were just like, hey, I've had enough?
That was done.
Cause I know a lot of people, you know,
they go through that time period with like,
I don't want to get surgery, which I get.
Because, oh yeah, well I did that.
I went through that like,
oh, I'm going to foundational training it away.
There's like a stance that I'm going to hold for three minutes.
And it's like, no, no, that shit was working.
Yeah.
So you tried all that stuff and it's not working.
And eventually the pain gets to a point.
I know people that have had surgeries
and they haven't gone great and it sucks.
So I generally tell people like,
hey, if you can put it off, put it off.
And then at a certain point you got to go,
okay, look, I tried and this isn't working.
And I know a lot of people that have gone just like you.
They went and got surgery and they wake up and they're like,
oh, I'm healed.
I mean, imagine that go from debilitating pain,
which is what you had, you wake up and you're healed.
I did that.
What surgery was that?
Well, I had five.
Yes.
So the first one, the first one was in Hawaii,
they cleaned it out, that was fixed.
And then later on, like I had the Glover one in my lower back
but it went bad.
Sometimes with those things, like when you get it cut,
the disc, the disc comes back.
Your Pete's scar, your scar is so big.
Like my scar that I have from the thing,
you can't even see it.
But when I had my car accident with the drunk drivers,
I also, it made my neck numb again, my arm and my leg.
So I had both.
I was like, whoa.
There's a good thing, right?
There is.
No, there's these ones.
There's a little here too.
I don't know, there's some.
I don't know.
But I have artificial discs in there.
And how those work?
So when they put that in there,
it took away that numbness.
I was just like, oh.
But it still gets sore.
Of course, it's not perfect.
But it took away that.
You're just like, oh.
And I thought I was getting a dyssectomy in there,
whatever they call it.
I went into surgery thinking they were gonna clean it out.
And I'm reading on a thing that says,
disc replacements too.
I'm like, oh, shit.
I'm like.
Disreplacements are only like 10 years old,
12 years old in the neck.
Yeah.
And so it's awesome, right?
So he, yeah.
So he says, well, I did it in,
I met these people.
I was, I can't tell you where I've been.
I've been everywhere.
But I'm also friends with Higgin Machado.
And I was helping him.
He was helping me.
I guess we help each other.
We're friends in Beverly Hills at his school.
I was teaching Ashton Kutcher and all the John Wick guys.
And they had recommended Daniel Bernhardt.
So he's the director.
He's the guy that took over.
See, Michael or Daniel.
He took over after Van Dam.
Remember when I was like in kickboxers?
Like Van Dam, then it became like some other guy.
That became him.
And then he is the director of all the Matrix stuff.
Oh, okay.
And so his kids liked me a lot.
I was teaching them private lessons.
Who else is it?
All the, Joey Diaz.
I gave, I got Joey Diaz in the jujitsu actually.
He, he did a comedy show in Chicago.
And he calls me, it was in Indiana.
He calls me up.
He's like, Peter Greek.
I haven't met you, but they tell me you're the guy.
If I'm in Chicago.
So I went out there to his comedy show.
And after his show, I'm like,
he was talking about martial arts with passion.
I'm like, dude, you need to join jujitsu.
And he's like, serious?
I'm like, and he got like a tear in his eyes.
And he went back when he went back home,
he actually joined.
And when I show up to Higgins,
I saw him there and I did a video and everything.
And Higgins is a cool dude.
I don't know why I even brought him up,
but I just think of him, he's like a Dean.
He's one of those big dudes that like,
that people just feel inspired around.
And she got to shoot.
If those guys met Glover, they would have went nuts.
Imagine they liked me, they're freaking.
No, Higgins used to make a point to come to me
at every tournament and say the nicest stuff to me, dog.
No kidding.
Like this boy is genius, is genius.
You said like stuff like that back, dog.
You were so cool and nice to me.
Thank you.
We used to hang out Dean and Higgins and I in Brazil.
My dad and stuff, they was like our little crew.
And that's what Higgins did.
He went to everybody.
Like everybody that was coming up and was cool.
He would go up to them and just encourage the shit out of them.
That's pretty cool.
You know, there was like a zero player hater
in that dude's body.
And I have a rule with him.
Like we're not allowed to talk about jujitsu.
He likes me because I remember him of Carlson Gracie.
Carlson was his favorite uncle.
He's like, if the Machado brothers could have trained
with anyone, they wished they would have trained with Carlson
because that was this part that they didn't get into
as a mixed martial arts part
because they didn't have him as the coach.
Like if Carlson was our coach, we would have fought.
And so I remind Higgins of Carlson a lot.
He loves to have me around.
And I met all those high level people and Joey Diaz.
And I just want to say, man, thanks
because that was part of my rehab too.
Was I lived at Higgins house for a while.
You had rehab for your neck?
Yeah, just like,
or for your back.
Let me think which one it was.
Car accident.
The car accident got both of them.
Cause you got, I was on the news in Chicago.
It was a big thing.
Like it took me in all that stuff.
And that's the gang bangers tried to run off.
So they hit me and they ran off.
And it was funny.
I'm like, these fuckers are running
and they're running away.
They're running out of the minivan.
They hit me and then they just start dropping
cause they were injured too.
And then like they take me to the hospital
and they thought I was part of them.
They're like, no, just listen here, buddy.
I'm like, look, I'm the guy they got hit.
Like we don't want to hear that.
I'm like, get me out of here.
And I just left.
And that was like the same hospital.
And you see the Joker and Batman.
Like he's blowing it up.
It's called St. Elizabeth.
It's right over there in Chicago.
I live right in Chicago.
It was cool.
I mean, I come from a pizza family, a hot dog family.
I'm Sicilian and Greek.
So my grandma's side is the Rottolos.
It's funny.
They're Italian.
They're dad.
He's actually like, I think we're cousins.
We feared it out last time.
Cause their, their restaurant they're related to
is called La Villa.
That's the last restaurant I ate at with my mom
before she passed away.
It's right by our house.
It's one of the old, old school restaurants.
Shoot.
Let's like this guy was from Chicago.
Chicago's, it's shy town.
It's a little town.
We all know each other and shoot Glover over here.
I'll tell you one thing.
I've met a lot of creative people.
Scotty was creative like Glover in his own way
as far as putting everyone together.
So Scott, I know I keep bringing up Scotty,
but man, I wouldn't have met any of these people
without him.
He like propelled Jiu-Jitsu through,
provided a lot of fuel for Jiu-Jitsu
when there wasn't much fuel for Jiu-Jitsu.
In Brazil, he thought he was pocketed on.
He thought I was Carlson.
Glover's like Holes Gracie.
Like maybe like different spirits find,
I don't know, thinking like that.
Maybe we find them, but Holes and Carlson
were business partners.
Holes was the best black belt from the other side
of the family.
And when he became black belt,
he would come to Carlson's and train.
And sometimes these guys would beat him.
There was like two guys that could beat Holes at Carlson's
and Holes says, you know, I wanna train with you guys.
And so Holes came over and Carlson said,
wait a minute, you're not gonna teach at my class.
You can have your own class.
So at Carlson's school, they had two rooms.
So Carlson would teach in like room A Monday, Wednesday,
Friday, and then Holes would take that room Tuesday,
Thursday, Saturday, switch and go to the other room
the other days.
And then they would have a friendly competition
between their students.
And that's how they kept the level so high.
So when Holes got, Holes was black belt,
his best black belts were Carl, Carlinos Gracie.
You know, he had Fabio Santos, he had
and Carlos Gracie Jr.
But most of the guys went to Carlinos when Holes died
because they wanna stick with the Gracie family.
But the best one of those guys, not the competitor,
the most technical was Jacare Calvacante.
It would be like we're Franjina comes from there.
So that was the most technical of Holes.
The old, the white one.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So he,
I went to his school.
So that's how we're kinda like,
I'm more like Carlson side, like, you know,
no, it's not gonna work.
And Glover's like, no, no, no, just grab me here,
grab me there.
So that's why we're probably friends
because we kinda, we're kinda like opposites.
Jeff, what was the discussion you had
with Hannah Gracie the other day,
sport jiu-jitsu, self-defense?
What was that discussion about?
Yeah, it was like a meme that I saw and it was like self,
it was talking about how people in like self-defense
jiu-jitsu will say something like,
oh, they have problems with tournaments, sport jiu-jitsu.
I don't do that sport jiu-jitsu shit.
I do that self-defense style.
And it was like, imagine a boxer telling you that.
I've been like, I don't do that sport boxing shit.
I just do that self-defense boxing.
It's like, how crazy would they sound saying that?
So this is someone that might think,
well, you know, oh, you do that, you know,
you train on a mat with a guillon, that's not realistic.
So you'd get your ass kicked in a real fight.
I mean, listen, whatever it was, it was a funny ass meme.
And I posted it.
And then one of his students, some dude,
wrote just some pretty hostile like,
you don't know what you're talking about, shit Glover.
So I went to his page and I saw that he was like,
this scrawny 35 year old dude, like my size, you know?
And I'm like, I'm fucked this dude, you know?
So I like, I like to go,
I took a screenshot of his belt that he had
because he had a belt that I had never seen.
And I'm like, what is this?
Some karate belt, you know?
And I was like, look at this is the kind of guy
who like argues with me about anything in jiu-jitsu
is some dude who doesn't even do jiu-jitsu.
And Hannah was like, hey, what up, Jeff?
Send me a message.
Da-da-da.
And I found out that Hannah has his own belting system.
I didn't know that dog.
I didn't know that.
I didn't know I was personally, he was like,
oh, that was a personal attack, bro.
And I was like, hey, first of all, as your friend,
because I've known him for a long time
since we were both like, you know, 17.
I was like, as your friend,
if you feel like I personally attacked you,
honestly, whatever it was, I apologize.
I was like, I don't wanna personally attack you.
You're the man, dude.
But like on a professional level,
I didn't know you had your own belting system.
And that I was like making fun of one of your dudes.
You know what I'm saying?
And he's like, yeah, dog,
we have this whole system, da-da-da.
He explained it to me for like an hour.
And you know, I have ADD, dude.
I can't be listening to you.
I can't imagine you having it in one hour.
Dude, I was like-
I'm pretty surprised we're holding an hour right now.
Well, that's how I ended the conversation.
I was like, the weed is wearing off.
You made your point.
You know what I'm saying?
I'm sorry I hurt your feelings.
Yeah, we all do basic jujitsu,
but I don't think like,
I don't think like people who only do self-defense
will ever be able to beat somebody who does sport jujitsu.
And that's the end of my point.
I had a guy on social media over the last couple of days.
He posted something.
I wish I could get the exact quote for you.
But it was something like this.
And I get the spirit of what he was saying.
He said, you know, I know this guy,
it was something along the lines like,
this guy wants me to train jujitsu,
but I told him, listen,
there's a difference between jujitsu and crazy old Marine.
And you're not going to be armbar in me
when I'm gouging eyes, right?
And so that was the comment.
And he kind of like thought,
he probably thought like I'd be like, hell yeah,
because I love the Marines and I love the military.
But I haven't responded to him yet,
but I'm going to respond to him.
And I'm going to say, hey, bro, like,
actually you're not going to be gouging anybody's eyes
when you're getting choked and arm locked
because that's what's really going to happen.
And, you know, Dean always has a good explanation of like,
oh, you know, some of the guy will say to Dean,
like, well, yeah, I would just like bite your face.
And Dean, Dean's like, yeah, cool, then I'll be mad.
Yeah. Nice.
You know, cause then you make Dean mad.
Well, you make a jujitsu guy mad.
So now when they're mounted on you,
like they're gonna bite your face.
Yeah, we had a friend here that was a seal,
a jujitsu guy and he got into a street fight.
And he like was a cross side on the dude.
You might remember, he got his ear bitten off,
like kind of not bitten off, but like,
if you took a piece of pizza and like turned it to the side
and took a bite, not out of like this,
the tip of the triangle, but like out of the side,
it looked like that, like just a bite was gone.
You know what I'm saying?
Like a bite was gone of this dude, of this seal's ear.
But now what happened in the fight?
Now he was pissed.
Oh, man.
Oh yeah, I mean, he just like annihilated this guy,
could have killed him or whatever.
But yeah, so that self-defense stuff of like,
well, I'll kick you in the nuts or I'll gouge you
or I'll fish hook you.
No, you actually, or you may, maybe you will,
but it's not gonna help.
It's not gonna help.
And the other thing is like, oh, well, oh, jujitsu,
why would you wanna go to the ground in self-defense?
Don't wanna go to the ground in self-defense.
Hopefully you don't have to.
Hopefully you just knock a dude out, you know?
Hopefully you just, you know, give him a nice one, two, three
and the dude's knocked out and you move on,
carry on with your day.
Yeah, but we landed there and now we're here.
Yeah, but all of a sudden I got, you know, gang tackled
or tackled by somebody or a trip to fell.
And now the only way I can handle this situation
is if I know how to get back all my feet
and do jujitsu or unbox somebody or whatever.
And I'm a purple belt pan am champ,
so guess what's gonna happen?
Yeah, we do all that shit you just said.
Yeah, yeah, it's gonna be not good.
So yeah, that's definitely something to think about.
Have you ever had, how has jujitsu performed for you
in the streets?
I mean, I've never lost a street fight.
I'm a witness.
What is your go-to move in a street fight?
No, you're not.
You've never seen me fight anybody.
I'm a witness.
Oh no, I'm not a witness.
That's right.
Ripping statement.
Dude, you know what?
You're just imagining how kick ass it would be.
But that's what happens when Glover tells you
about a fight that he had, it's like, I'm there.
Like I already imagined it,
cause I know his moves, he's like, yeah,
I double-legged the guy, ran around him, I left at him.
He tried to chase me.
That must be so crazy.
That's what I was trying to say with Hinner,
is that Hinner is like, he fails to mention
that he's a bad ass wrestler dog.
He's a dope ass boxer.
You know what I'm saying?
It's like, how did you win streets fights?
I'm like, I never really used jujitsu.
I always like faked double legs
and then punched the shit out of you
when they fell to the, oh, I'm gonna get double-legged
and I punched them and I was like,
well, didn't even use any jujitsu there.
But, but, no.
Well, my coach was with, with Ilyo.
He was, he was his best student.
Look, on this subject, it's like I started off with,
many truths exist at the same time with this subject.
Oh.
They're both true and they're both exist at the same time.
And it's almost pointless to talk about this.
What do you call it, a paradox?
What do you call that?
I don't know, what do you guys call that?
They're like loaded in questions.
They sound like something echoing.
As far as like jujitsu.
Yeah, I do a lot of times when people have a strong argument
for against their, they look at it, what my brother would
call it in a vacuum.
So they'll take a very individual thing unchallenged
in the real world kind of a thing.
And then a concept.
No, I'm not saying jujitsu as a whole.
Just like how you said,
bro, there's so many truths going on in there.
But I'm saying a concept and then they'll challenge it
against sometimes a straw man, but sometimes not another
in the vacuum concept and then they'll go to battle.
But a lot of times, especially kind of what you were saying
in that debate.
Do you know what straw man is Pete?
No.
Like the worst example.
I'll let Echo explain it.
In a nutshell, it's like the worst example of someone's
side, it's usually like inaccurate.
Oh, I got it, now I understand.
But either way, like when you talk about a competitor
in jujitsu and then the other side would be like,
oh, you would never pull guard on the street,
which is true, but then they're representing that
as like their position.
I wouldn't say never.
I wouldn't never say never.
They'd say they'd say never.
And then even that, that's not necessarily true.
Maybe for Jeff and that's all.
No, because if you jump full guard,
you're gonna land straight on the pavement.
And to Henners credit, he did say some things that,
I think the jujitsu community wanted to hear him say.
I asked him if he thought John Danerher was the number one
dude in the world right now.
What did he say?
I'm like, is we all agree on that?
Do you agree with that?
Or are you gonna say your grandpa?
You don't say anything?
He said, yeah, John Daner is number one.
I can't deny that.
Cool.
And I was like, okay, do you think jujitsu guys
who do tournaments can win street fights?
And he was like, yes, I agree with that.
Well, you know, I was like, cool, that's all I was saying.
I was like, I don't disagree with anything he says.
Yeah, and see, and then that's,
so the conflict really comes when the interchangeability
of generalities versus specifics kind of goes on.
And that's how it goes.
It's not going deep right now.
No, I meant, yeah.
I'm just gonna say that.
And look, if someone could always say,
generally speaking, if someone always could say that,
and then when they go specific, they say, well, specific.
That's great.
A lot of specifics have no place in a general argument.
So people don't understand that.
So they get this, this week's console.
Line jujitsu coming out of a freaking apple top.
It's the way it works.
See it happening all the time.
Write that down, Pete.
Jeff, generalities are different in specifics.
Yeah.
I always say I'm one of the worst people
to introduce people to jujitsu because I'm like big and strong.
And so if I, when I would like introduce someone to jujitsu,
they'd be like, well, that's just because you're big and strong.
Matter of fact, to this day, someone will be like, well,
yeah, good role.
You're really strong.
You're big and strong or whatever.
And I'm always like, yeah, thanks, man.
That's why I lift.
Hell yeah.
But Jeff, I think you're like, I think you're the ultimate.
I lift too, but yeah.
I think you're the ultimate person
to introduce jujitsu to other people
because you are unassuming.
And what made me think of that is, dude,
I can't imagine the fool and how crappy it is when someone sees
you and they're like, I'm going to talk some shit to this little
skinny white kid right now.
Oh, it happens.
I've been a witness.
Wait.
I know nothing.
Aren't you Mexican though?
My dad is half Mexican now, pretty much.
So you are Mexican, is that it?
Yeah.
Well, my dad.
Boy, you look like a white boy, man.
He speaks Spanish.
He's like half white, half Cherokee Indian.
But they would just say Mexican.
Wait, your dad is half white and half Cherokee Indian.
Is your mom like the whitest person ever?
She is, yeah.
Because damn.
Yeah, I'm white.
You are white.
Dude, it would look crazy when I'd be with my grandma.
People would think she like kidnapped me.
All right.
ADCC.
So speaking of which, I saw you up there this year.
What did you think of everything?
What was your impression?
Let me start off by saying this.
Yeah, it's great.
Bro, when I went and saw you when I was talking about going
to see you at the ADCC trials, that was literally in like a,
what was it, in like a hotel back room or something?
There's a hotel ballroom.
Yeah, like a hotel ballroom.
Not a nice hotel either, but just like some shitty hotel.
And they put some mats on the floor.
I thought it was nice.
There's like 200 people watching, right?
Less than that.
Just the people there.
There was no one to be watching.
Yeah, actually, there's just people competing and then
there's people competing and then watching others compete.
Yeah.
This one was crazy.
It was epic.
There was 15,000 people in a big damn stadium.
And the Jiu Jitsu was just freaking nuts to watch.
It was nuts to watch.
What are you seeing in the evolution of Jiu Jitsu right now?
It's interesting, right?
And I have a very interesting perspective.
I wish I could explain it.
I wish I had the vocabulary to explain that.
But remember when you first saw those first ADCC matches
with the chic and they're like, the drums
and the Arab dudes playing drums in the background?
And it was something so magical.
It was like being a kid again.
It was like all of a sudden, remember when you found out
pro wrestling was fake?
You know what I'm saying?
You were so heartbroken.
I was.
And then I found Abu Dhabi.
And I was like, oh my god, it's not like pro wrestling's real
again.
It's real.
You know, these dudes are real real.
Like Dean's a real fucking pro.
Like Macho Man is like, you know, that was like Dean Lister.
Dean's Lister is like a real life Macho Man.
You know?
So yeah, it's just every year it's always so special.
You could go back and watch ADCC 1996 and untrained eye
and watch that shit and be like, wow, that's fucking amazing.
I can't imagine somebody who just started Jiu Jitsu last year
watching ADCC and being like, oh, what am I getting myself
into?
That was crazy.
You know, am I going to be doing that?
Like, whoa.
It's just, yeah, it's, I don't know how people don't want to do it.
What do you think about the evolution of the game?
Like what it looks like now?
It's a tough question.
People ask that one.
That's a tough one.
I don't know.
Has it really evolved?
We're all just going for neck, arms, and legs.
Yeah, that's true.
I was pleasantly surprised the last couple
matches in big tournaments I've been watching because like,
I'll be here and training.
And like, this is an example.
I'm freaking trying to pass Dean's Guard,
trying to pass Wes' Guard, whatever.
What's your, like, Echo's Guard.
Like, they spend a lot of time trying to pass Guard.
And man, sometimes I think, dude, I just suck at Jiu Jitsu.
Now I need to freaking, you know, like just find a new sport
to go start playing croquet or some shit, you know, like.
Why, because you're bored?
No, because I suck.
And I'm like, dude, I suck.
And then we'll go and watch, like, at ECC.
I was like, I was watching.
I was like, that's right.
And I'd realized this six months ago.
I was like, oh, this is what Jiu Jitsu looks like more now.
People are better.
Their guard is better.
Their leg attacks are better.
You can't dive into stuff the way you could.
Everyone's just better.
So it takes more skill and more time to pass the Guard.
And as I watched all these matches, I'm like, yeah,
this is, it's just a different game.
Now there are evolutions that are happening right now.
And I'm seeing like, Pete, you were talking about them
some of the other night.
Well, we're trying to do like, OK, so with the IBGF
tournaments that were before, well, they still have them now.
You don't have to be specifically too good at that many skills.
You could be good at two or three positions
and hold the person and win.
But now at these tournaments are submission only,
or Glover has a tenor tap system.
There's ADCC systems.
You're getting penalized for just holding a guy in one
position.
So with no g, you're not going to be able to hold anyone down
under sweaty.
So what people are doing now is leaning on the person
and making them carry the weight.
And then on the bottom, you're pretty much.
That's not changed.
It's always been like that.
I guess so.
I'm finding more of the evolutions coming in.
OK, pretty much.
I'm failing to find that.
Yeah, there's, yeah, it's just like.
It's just different styles.
It's always going to look.
That's what's so cool about this.
It's always new and what's new is old.
Look at these old Greek guys like Achilles and Zeus.
And like those dudes knew how to grapple.
I guarantee you, like, who are you kidding?
Didn't he come up with the Achilles lock?
Yeah, all that stuff.
You know what I mean?
They had the wristlock guy.
They had all that stuff.
When did you get all freaking focused on wristlocks
while we're going down this rabbit hole?
OK, so when I lived in Brazil, I lost it.
In the world, it was like my fifth match in Oswaldo
Alves there.
He's an old guy with Andre Gauvara.
Just tell the story kind of faster.
The way he's wearing off.
Come on, Peter.
So they come live with us.
And this old guy is the wristlock master.
Can I tell your story for you?
Stop.
And then he taught me a couple wristlocks.
And then when I hurt my back, I couldn't do arm bars anymore.
So if you grab the arm, you got to spin all the way around.
Like Glover, you seem to grab some arm.
He's jumping around.
I just, I focus on the wrist and elbow and I snap it.
And if it works, it works.
If it doesn't work, I use it to pass the guard.
You could see like Cade Ritolo, he used a wristlock.
And it's Mika Galvan.
He starts snapping his wrist.
You highlighted that.
Mika pulls out.
And then he starts coming around, circling,
goes back to the center, goes again.
Mika hides his wrist, gives him the pass, and he takes the leg.
And then he stuck his leg in.
And I only had these videos out for a couple of years.
Now mind you, I came out wristlocked the world
when I was living with Glover.
We're sitting over there in National City over here
working with you guys.
And I was so pissed, I was like, fuck the world.
I'm like, no.
Wristlocked the world.
Wristlocked, butting.
Like, yeah.
Glover's like, fuck you, Pete.
I need something like that.
Come up with something like that for me.
And then it just took off.
You know, I started WTW, stands for a lot of things.
PTG stands for past a guard, past a guac.
Past a guard.
Pressure the guard.
Pray to whomever you choose.
There's a lot of things.
And man, doing Jitsu at Glover is fun.
And I can honestly say, I don't have, like, you had Bill,
or you had Dean.
I had Carlson.
He passed away.
So I was like, my guy is gone.
So thank God I end up in the best rooms with the best people
that love Jiu Jitsu.
And lately, I've been somehow ended up with the Rotolo
Brothers.
With them every day, we do this foundations training.
And then we do, like, spears like this.
And all this stuff is fixing them.
But I get to be around them.
So it's fixing me.
And the guys are, like, living in Hawaii,
where I got hurt initially.
And so it's all coming full circle.
And that's what's so cool about martial arts is,
comes around full circle.
Last time we were here, was there a Jocko podcast
when we were here years ago?
Like, I don't even know.
This has only been around for about six years?
Seven years?
Seven years, yeah.
Which is weird.
So it's all coming full circle.
And I think the more you love Jiu Jitsu, the more it'll love you.
And Jeff and I have made how many videos?
I mean, like, I showed up to BJJ Fanatics.
I made Rislock the World.
Dana hers the one that actually got me that job.
Like, I don't know him so well, but he gets a kick out of me.
And they call me up, Bernardo called me up,
and I show up there.
And I seen they had a Jeff Glover DVD in their own collection.
It was with, like, another company.
I forgot their name.
I thought Pete was full of shit.
I was like, dude, Pete's full of shit.
I'm like, Glover, what am I supposed to do here?
I've been here like...
Full of shit about what?
Just everything he said.
I was like, this dude's just, he lies about all kinds of shit.
He always thinks I'm a scammer because he hasn't met, like,
I'm Sasain in Greek.
He's used to, like, Mexican, white...
And then met the owner of the company.
He met me before.
He thinks I'm a scammer.
Wait, this is BJJ Fanatics.
Yeah.
And when the guy, he was like, oh yeah, just passively.
He's like, yeah, Dean gets these bubble blood checks every month.
I was like, what?
I'm like, Glover, get your ass over it.
He's like, fuck you, Pete, I'm not leaving San Diego.
Yeah, I was like, I don't want to go out there.
He's like, go back.
He's like, go to...
He's cold out there.
I'm like, all right, Glover.
And then I get out of there and shit, and then Glover always...
We always try to top each other.
That's what's really cool.
Like, so, like...
What we do is we hang out extremely a lot and then we disband and we try to like come
up with who can come up with more stuff.
But I got hurt before him.
So like the people are like, they got to really be into it to know me.
They got to pretty much be into it to know him.
They don't even got to be into it to know Joe Rogan.
Joe Rogan, like he's the one that probably like...
He's like the Scotty now.
He's like...
You know what I mean?
The Scotty was like that for us as kids.
But now you got like Joe Rogan and we're all friends.
Eddie Bravo.
Eddie's our good friend.
Like, shoot, like...
He does the other half guard, you know?
What do they call him?
Lockdown.
So like Nemesis, Glover and Eddie.
They're kind of like...
They're from the same planet or something.
I don't know, but he's my other good buddy.
Shoot, he gets a kick out of it.
And we're all connected.
And Joe Rogan, hey, thanks a lot because every Jitsu school in the world should think that
guy.
For sure.
Period.
Right?
Yeah, for sure.
Spreading the word.
And Joey Diaz, I gave him that class.
Changed his life.
He put the video out and shout out to him too.
Because he's...
And he knows everything about martial arts, believe it or not.
He did Kung Fu and all that stuff.
And I looked at him and I said, you know what?
You need to get on the match, brother.
And I talked to him at least once a week.
Like when my mom was on hospice, we call up Joey.
He thinks he's really...
He's like, yeah, this is your uncle from your mom's side.
It's weird.
It's like we're really related.
And cool dude.
He loves Glover.
I know everyone is...
Yes or no?
Like dude, these guys call me...
Spit that shit, dude.
Look, my mom's sick.
My mom just passed away a few weeks ago.
Look, Eddie Bravo calls up every night, plays music for her.
Crazy.
That's awesome, man.
Eddie follows me up.
Do you guys remember the Eddie Bravo video that was Cribs?
Oh yeah, I'm in that video.
I tried to find it on...
It's not on YouTube.
But we got to get the access to that.
I got it at home.
It's called the Twister.
I'm on the Easter egg.
So if you go up, down, left, right, up, down, left, right, I show up.
Yeah, so it was on that DVD.
So that's why I have it.
So I must have it.
But I don't even have a DVD player anymore.
Yeah, there's a way you press up, down, left, right.
They're called Easter eggs.
Scotty's brother, Kate, who's like a computer genius.
This guy put it in there.
So when you put the little code in and I pop up and Eddie Bravo, yeah, he's...
Shoot, just a regular dude like us.
And then next thing you know, he's another one.
Like shoot, 10 planet.
They're everywhere.
Yeah.
They're nice to Glover and I.
Like we've been to how many 10 planet schools teaching seminars.
It's one thing that's cool.
Back in the day, it seemed like there was more animosity.
And maybe there still is, but between Jiu Jitsu schools and all that stuff, it seems like
that's not so...
Definitely, what?
Let me say it doesn't even seem.
They're definitely not that as much animosity as there used to be between, or maybe it's
just between all the people we know.
We're in their systems.
You know, they have moves named after Glover.
They have wrist socks after me.
I'm sure they have moves.
When you're part of someone's system, there's no denying it.
Glover's got like, they have like moves and they have a system of moves.
Like they have like, how can you not be friends with your inner system?
Geez.
Well, right on.
So what, so if guys are looking to follow you guys now, I want to do a seminar.
How do they get to do a Jeff Glover seminar in their Academy?
I have the same booking agent that Dean has.
It's a guy named Dave Herbert.
So where do they go?
Like is it a website?
Striker's International.
It's a, it's a, it's a, you know, booking agency where he does seminars for striking
people and whatever.
Dean came to my tournament, introduced me to the guy, bought a Bing, bought a Boom.
He's booking all of our seminars for us and making it easy.
So Striker's International on Instagram is the guy's page.
And or you could just contact me on Instagram and we can book seminars and flat rate and
all that stuff.
And your, and your Instagram is Jeff, Jeff Glover BJJ.
That's right.
You guys are both, you already mentioned this, BJJ Fanatics, which is a compilation website
of all the best guys in the world making videos, instructional videos.
Both you guys are on there.
We have a lot of content.
Most of the people have a couple of videos.
Jeff and I are there a lot.
Like we have between the both of us who made probably 40 videos in a past year and a half.
And I'm, I'm just, I just started working with Striker's International too.
So you could contact them or you could find us.
Do to remind me after this, let's talk to the boys at BJJ Fanatics and put like a special
on when this comes out.
You know what I'm saying?
So maybe people could buy like a, like 10 of your videos or something in a package or
something.
There's always like, even if you buy one video, every little bit helps, you know, Jeff and
I actually taught, we taught a lot of classes.
I remember we taught the, we taught the Marines together and stuff.
Yeah.
Joel Hoffman, remember?
Colonel Joel, you trained here?
Yeah.
So there's no discrimination.
We're here to teach, you know?
If you're watching this years from now on Instagram, maybe it doesn't even exist.
Who knows?
You can always find us Pete the Greek, you know what I mean?
Jiu-Jitsu and Jeff Glover, Jiu-Jitsu and Jocko.
You could find us if you want us.
Echo to it only, Vecho.
He's a black belt.
All these guys, you know what I mean?
You're at Pete the Greek, wristlock the world.
Is that one big thing on Instagram?
Is it that whole thing or is it just Pete the Greek?
That whole thing.
Pete the Greek.
There's some other Pete the Greek guy that's kind of fake.
Your BJJ school is called RioBjj.com.
Let's see, what's the...
And that's also where you can get t-shirts or whatever.
Just go to wristlocktheworld.com.
I bought that one.
Oh, okay.
It brings you to everything.
I'm at Instagram.
wristlocktheworld.com.
I put a link tree so you can set up all your links.
And like I said, if Instagram's not around in the future, you can always find us.
You know, we do Jiu-Jitsu.
You'll find Glover in the Greek.
Right on.
And the Ritola brothers, I want to give a shout out to them because my mom just passed away.
I was feeling down, Jeff all the way in Santa Barbara and these kids, like, I don't know,
I have a good connection with them.
And they're about the only ones as cool as watching Glover as far as I'm concerned.
Because most of the matches, I fall asleep.
And these guys, I get that.
They're the only ones that remind me of Glover.
I just want to add, when his mom died, I showed up.
No, Glover's great.
It sounded like I wasn't there, motherfucker.
I was there for that.
Okay.
Glover was in Santa Barbara.
I came to be with you.
No, my mom looked at me.
She goes, I'm tired of seeing.
I'm tired of seeing.
Is anyone listening?
Things I'm a bad friend.
That's not true.
My mom's a big mo.
She's from Chicago.
And my grandma's Leona.
These are all like pizza people.
My grandma's the first woman in Chicago to have a restaurant, a business.
So a shout out to Shaitown, dude.
Shout out.
You know what I mean?
Right on.
Awesome.
Echo, you got anything else?
Oh yeah, a couple things.
Sandy Beach.
That's real.
Sandy Beach is on a Wahoo though, by the way.
It's not in Hilo.
They might have taken me there.
They're on somewhere.
Hey, we're going to go.
We're going to go training.
Oh yeah.
So it's very notorious for the short break.
You Google break that beach.
Short pound, sure, if you will.
I'm saying in this scenario, it's probably appropriate to go to a short pound.
Oh yeah.
And it's super common for guys to get injured there.
So they post signs and all that stuff.
But you know.
P. degree, can't read no signs.
No way.
When you're going with the boys, they're going.
Yeah, the local guys, they don't.
Yeah, so you got to watch out though for that.
It's notorious for that kind of stuff.
Or the short break.
Yes.
Built my spirit.
Watch out for Sandy Beach.
Spirit.
Secondly, I think I figured out maybe 5, 10% of your whole thing.
Who?
Jeff Glover.
Please inform us.
You like, you took the original structure, if you will, of Jujitsu and you were like,
oh wait, there's more stuff underneath the hood here.
So you just like, you know how you ever buy like a remote control car and be like, okay,
cool.
And you take it apart and you see the motor and you see how everything works.
You're like, okay, you take the original structure of Jujitsu and then when you roll,
you sort of take it apart.
Like you do stuff that you're not supposed to do.
You let them out.
Just see what happens.
See, let me take off this wheel.
Is that reverse engineering?
In a way.
But more and more, it's like a, it's a form of experimentation.
So it's like when you do that, you start to see little connections like, oh, this piece
doesn't have to fit here.
I dig it.
It can fit like over here.
I dig that.
And the reason we're one of the days that you're teaching and I figured that out is you did
this drill that I never been a part of before.
You're like, okay, get into whatever position mount, right?
And then you'll just call out another position or submission and you'll be like, get there
as quick as you can.
And some people would be like, Oh, I got to go here.
Some people, they don't even know how to get there.
They'll just sort of climb over and for which won't really work, but it's part of the drill.
You know, find the shortest path.
I was just going to say, you're right.
Find the shortest path.
But there's a test as a test to see who stumbles through that one and just, you know, makes
the 15 moves that could have been too.
But I felt it though, because when you were like, Oh yeah, I'm out.
We're in mount.
And you said, go to the kneebar.
And I was like, I know the drill, so I'm not just going to just go to the kneebar.
Like the way you kind of can't really do it.
I got to go to another step first.
It's like, okay, I go half guard then the knee bar from, you know, Dean's knee bar or
whatever.
And I remember you watching and being like kind of looking as if just a little bit disgusting.
No, no, no.
The opposite.
It was kind of approved.
And not to say that that was such a great performance of the drill.
It was more like, this is how I felt.
I don't know.
I couldn't read his mind.
I just read his look where it was like.
The way I felt at that time was like, this is the purpose of this drill is to like, don't
think of it in terms of like, Oh, I know what an armbar is.
Let me just go there.
It's more like, figure out the quickest way and you'll probably figure out that there's
quicker ways than how you do it when you really roll.
Or there's actually ways to get there, even though it doesn't seem right there available
at the time.
It seems sane.
And then I started thinking back and not to say I did this all in one day or nothing
like that.
But when you think back to like a lot of your stuff, like you'll do a darts choke choke
when they're passing your guard.
And I'm like, Oh, that's not usually where they teach the darts choke.
Is it?
It's usually from a very specific, you know, number of positions.
And then if you look like his match against, um, this was in 2009.
It was you went against Joel first and then Bill the girl Cooper.
I forget who you went with first.
It was like one of the first.
No Martinez.
I think that was the day to.
Darts choke that guy, you know him, he's a good dude, but it was a random tournament
in Delmar.
Yeah.
And that was the first time I think I've seen you in real life and I was watching you do
stuff.
I was like, wait, he's like doing a lot of creative stuff.
Yeah, it's creative, but it's like you're violating a bunch of rules just so you can
implement something that works by the way.
And then when it's a good demonstration, the best demonstration of that, that I remember
is you against bill the girl when you guys were both doing it.
God.
And we closed out several pro events where we were like in the finals against each other.
Yeah.
And he's like, this is my little brother, you know, we would just like, let's, let's
put on a dope show.
Yes, it's going to be a fixed match, but it's going to be so cool that people don't mind
watching a fixed.
Oh yeah.
It was, yeah, it was crazy.
It was really.
Yeah, just like, uh, it's like why I talk about like musicians and how a musician that's
really like Jimmy Page, you know, he played like as a studio musician for, for decades,
like as a, as like a teenager, he was playing as a studio musician, like play these exact
notes at this exact time.
And he's so got so disciplined and so good that when he got to Led Zeppelin, he's like,
oh, watch this, I'm going to play a note here with a freaking violin thing, whatever
that thing is called.
And I'm going to start playing a guitar in a totally different way and it's going to
work and it's going to sound awesome.
That's to me.
That's like Jeff Glover on the mats of justice.
I got compared to Led Zeppelin.
Yeah.
Yeah, you did.
Right on, fellas.
You guys coming down.
I'm looking forward to taking classes after dude.
Yeah, that's all I got.
Yeah.
Thanks, fellas.
Thank you boys.
We out.
And with that, Jeff Glover and Pete, the Greek have left the building.
Little jujitsu talk today.
Yeah.
Uh, you know, for me, from my perspective, it was kind of interesting to be like last
night thinking I was going to do this podcast talking about jujitsu with Jeffy and Pete.
And it was kind of, it's kind of, it's a lot different, right?
A lot of times I'm reading from a book or I'm, you know, we're talking to someone that's
been through some horrific things and it's usually pretty heavy, emotionally heavy.
So it was kind of, I must say, it was kind of relaxing to come in and just be like, oh,
we're going to talk about jujitsu with, with Jeff and Pete, who are both, you know, like
nice and chill.
So there you go.
Uh, jujitsu jujitsu.
So my, I came in this jujitsu scene in 2005 and which was in kind of the beginning of
the height of ju, of Jeff Glover.
So I saw Bill the grill, Jeff Glover, like these guys or whatever.
So it is interesting to hear like his version of that timeline.
And so I was like, Oh, that's when, that's when I came on the scene grapplers quest,
best of the West, freaking the world submission grappling championships.
It was like grapplers quest.
You were a little behind when there used to be, God, there used to be some really interesting
tournaments, good tournaments.
But yeah, sounds like there's a, there's a series of tournaments that the tournaments
you're talking came after.
There was like, what was that one, like the Olympics of grappling or something like this
grappling games.
So I think that one faded by the time there was a place in LA called neutral grounds.
That was old school back in the day.
I mean, we're talking like there'd be 50 people there in a cage, like with a grappling matches,
we're in a cage.
Dean Lister had a tournament or a match against a guy there and Dean got him in some kind
of hold, some kind of choke hold, but like, Oh no, Rico Rodriguez got this guy, but the
guy didn't tap.
And he like, when the ref stopped it or whatever, the dude like didn't get up for a while.
Like they were thinking this guy might not be alive.
Yeah, there were some crazy stuff, but a little bit rogue back in those days.
Yeah.
It's crazy how different it is now.
It is the popularity of Jiu Jitsu is awesome to see and Jiu Jitsu is fun.
And that the way that Jeff Glover rolls makes it even more fun watching him roll.
Yeah.
Get fun.
He's like the ideal of like exploratory to do and then what you gain like when you are
I mean, him as the example, like what he has gained from exploring Jiu Jitsu in that way.
So much is that's what makes it so like, you're not used to that kind of stuff.
And so it comes off as so amazing and it's available to most people like that, but it's
hard to like get in that mindset because he does it straight up during competitions.
Like watch like MetaMorris.
I think it was like four secret match.
Oh yeah.
He's the announcer, by the way, you know, like a secret match and it's Barry Yoshida,
who just wasn't the hall of fame of ADCC, by the way.
Barry Yoshida versus somebody.
It's a secret, right?
It's like a surprise.
And they're like, Jeff Glover, the announcer gets off, takes off his suit and goes rolls.
And boom, exploratory Jiu Jitsu, Donkey Guard, all this unorthodox stuff, but it's like,
it's by design, you know?
And it's interesting too, because they're like, they live kind of for lack of a better
term like a Jiu Jitsu nomad style, right?
Where they go around, everyone knows them.
They know everybody.
Is that Kang and Kung Fu walking the earth?
It's crazy that for like five years, I have victory MMA and fitness.
Look, we have Dean Lister teaching, like, which is insane just to think you can learn
all this stuff from Dean Lisch.
But for five years, we had Dean Lisch, which is as good as it's going to get.
And Jeff Glover, they're both here.
It was crazy.
It was like every day was just, it was crazy.
It was epic.
Sometimes I rolled with Jeff and I've rolled in many, many times.
And so the thing I remember about, or the thing that makes this very memorable is this
was the whole day I rolled with him.
I got a bunch of times where we're rolling, he's being all, he's keeping it playful or
whatever.
And then he switched and kept it real.
Cause if you didn't know, there's two, two modes, keeping it playful and keeping it real.
That's Hannah and he don't grace me up those terms, by the way.
He, he, he switches over to keeping it real and bust out some wrestling on me.
And I don't mean on me cause I'm so good.
And so that's why I'm not saying that I'm saying because I outweighed him by a lot and
he just put it on me.
Another notable thing is earlier.
Okay.
So I like Kimura, especially on smaller guys.
He saw the Kimura coming.
He gave me the Kimura and he reached behind his back and just held his arms as if to be
like, I'm giving you this Kimura, but it's your job to finish it.
I couldn't finish it.
I was like, bro, see that's the, and it's not like I'm smaller than him where it's like
I'm bigger.
Like the, the, the chance of me finishing it is going to be higher than, you know, maybe
a smaller guy still does it, but that's that exploratory process that's going to allow
him to understand all his available maneuver maneuvers.
When your hand is already behind your back.
He has that, we talked about it, but that level of confidence, like an insane level
of confidence in duty.
You know, when you watch Dean Lister with footlocks, he has that specifically with
footlocks at hill.
There's been tournaments where Dean would like stick his feet out like, go ahead, please
try and footlock me.
But man to Glover has that from a positional attitude.
Like he doesn't care what position someone gets.
He's going to.
So awesome stuff.
Thanks for those guys for coming on.
Support the podcast.
You want to support the podcast?
You got to support yourself.
Hopefully you're going to start training Jiu-Jitsu.
We can't even start to, you can't even start to explain how much Jiu-Jitsu is going to
help you in your life.
You got to, you got to, you got to say, listen, I, you got to have faith in what we're saying.
Right.
Cause I can't explain it.
Echo can't explain it.
You got to have a little bit of faith just to go try it.
And my recommendation is you do Jiu-Jitsu until you submit someone.
That's the, I made that, I did make that up.
I'll take credit for it.
You do Jiu-Jitsu until you submit someone.
Once you submit someone, if you decide, oh, I don't like this, did you move on?
That's probably not going to happen.
Cause once you submit somebody, you're like, it's like a drug.
Yeah.
Right.
And you know what else is like a drug if you have the right attitude is getting submitted
is like, damn, how'd that happen?
How'd that happen?
You know, it's a, it can be a horrible thing.
But start training Jiu-Jitsu.
If you're going to do Jiu-Jitsu, you're going to need to fuel that Jiu-Jitsu.
Get yourself some Jocofuel clean fuel, clean energy, good for you.
Making stuff that's literally good for you.
Go to jocofuel.com.
You can get these drinks.
God, they're good.
We, if you tried the drinks like six months ago, the jocogo drinks, you may not like the
taste.
You might have been like, but we, because of that, because that feedback, we reformulated
the flavors and now they freaking taste delicious.
So that's that.
Mulk, you probably just are down with that one.
If you're drinking, you're drinking.
I mean, Mulk is a savior to your, to your body.
It's a savior to your body.
It's going to, you get that Mulk hitter.
It's also a mental savior because you just got done eating a, eating a wagyu ribeye.
You know what I'm saying?
Like this is top of top dog.
Yep.
Right.
You just get done eating a, just a beautiful ribeye, even though it was delicious.
You still get done.
So you can have a little, you can have a little, you can have a little something sweet.
Sure.
It's possible.
So that's where you got that Mulk train.
Get on the Mulk.
You're going to be happy.
So you can get the, you can get the drinks at Wawa, you can get the protein, the ready
to drink protein drinks at Wawa right now.
We're making them as fast as we can.
We're selling them way faster than we predicted.
The ready to drink Mulk.
So you can now go into Wawa.
You can go into vitamin shop.
You can just go, oh, cool.
I want a drink right now.
I need 30 grams of protein right now.
I'm going catabolic.
It's an emergency scenario.
Boom, ready to drink.
We're making them as fast as we can
and we'll keep making them.
So, wow wow vitamin chop, joclefuel.com.
Come and get it.
Also if you're doing jiu-jitsu,
you're gonna need a jiu-jitsu gi.
Gi, no gi.
You might need a rash guard.
We got some no gi shorts coming.
We got all kinds of stuff.
That's at originusa.com.
All the stuff's made in America.
Hunt gear, done, out.
Jeans, boots.
I mean, this is what you need to live.
You need a gi.
You need jiu-jitsu shorts and rash guard.
You need jeans.
You need a t-shirt and you need a hoodie.
We got you covered.
You need boots.
Originusa.com and this stuff is made in America
which is the critical,
the critical part of this.
Because there's companies out there right now
that are gonna try to sell you something.
They got a brand, right?
They got a brand.
Making a brand.
Oh, our brand is whatever.
And what they do is they come up with some ideas
and they design it and there's four people working there,
seven people working there.
And you know what?
They design it and then they order it from China.
And then over in a sweatshop,
some slave labor makes it, sends it to here.
They sell it and they keep that money and they go,
cool, we made money.
Let's do it again.
That's not what we're doing.
We're making it in America.
So we do design it.
But then we bring the designs to the factory.
Our factories here in Maine and North Carolina
and we make it.
Americans make this stuff.
And you'd think all it must be seven times more expensive
than the slave labor.
No, it's not.
It's not.
And you're investing in America.
So originUSA.com, go get some.
Get whatever you need.
Yeah, that's true.
Also, Jockel's Store is called Jockel's Store.
So we can get discipline equals freedom stuff,
T-shirts and hats and hoodies.
Merch, if you will, a little bit better quality
than just random merch, by the way.
Also, we got the shirt locker,
which is a new shirt, new shirt design every month.
They're good, they're creative, they're fun.
Some controversial.
Yeah, there's been some controversial ones.
Some controversy.
But the ones I come up with seem to be more controversial
in a way.
Yeah, my specific designs.
Yeah, well, you're a controversial,
you-minded person from time to time.
We'll say that.
But, you know, overall, great feedback.
Check that out.
Go to jockelstore.com.
You can look at everything.
If you like something, amen.
Get something.
Subscribe to the podcast.
You already know that.
Don't forget about unraveling.
Don't forget about the Warrior Kid podcast.
I know I owe some.
I'm sorry.
Working on that latest Warrior Kid book,
we'll get it to you.
Jockel Underground.com.
We have that in case we get banned for whatever reason.
Who knows?
Maybe they don't like people from Chicago named Pete
the Greek and they're like,
hey, we're getting rid of this guy.
So $8.18 a month if you want to get on board with that.
We appreciate it.
If you can't afford it, no big deal.
Email assistance at jockelunderground.com.
We got a YouTube channel.
OriginUSA has a YouTube channel.
We got psychological warfare.
We got flipsidecanvas.com, Dakota Myers, Gig.
We got a bunch of books.
Only Cry for the Living by Holly McKay.
All the books I've written, Final Spin,
Leadership Strategy and Tactics, Field Manual,
the Kids Book.
Get the kids, you know the kids books, please, please.
Do that.
Mikey and the Dragons, The Way the Warrior Kid Series.
I have a company called Eshalon Front.
The Leadership Consultancy.
We solve problems through leadership.
So if you want to get involved in that, eshalonfront.com.
We have live events.
They sell out.
So if you want to come, go check out events there.
Eshalonfront.com or if you need long-term help,
go there.
Put it in the request.
And if you want to help service members active in retire,
you want to help their families.
You want to help the Gold Star families.
Check out Mark Lee's mom.
Mama Lee, she's got a charity organization.
If you want to donate or you want to get involved,
go to americasmightywarriors.org.
If you want to help vets by getting them out
to the wilderness so they can rediscover their soul,
go to heroesandhorses.org.
And once again, if you want to follow Jeff and Pete,
Pete is on Instagram, at Pete the Greek,
wristlock the world.
He's also at wristlocktheworld.com.
Jeff is on Instagram, at Jeff Glover, BJJ.
And listen, both these guys have a bunch of instructional
videos on bjjfanatics.com.
And I know the guys from bjjfanatics.com,
Bernardo and Michael, the guys that run it,
the guys that own it,
they're doing a great job of putting out great content.
So check out videos.
If you want to check these guys out,
if you want to learn from them,
if you want to learn from anybody,
you go to bjjfanatics.com.
And you're probably going to find that champion
that you want to learn from on there.
So go check that out.
If you want to learn the basics of jiu-jitsu,
there's basic videos on there.
So check that out.
As for us, and by us, I mean Echo, Charles and myself,
we're also on the interwebs.
We're on Twitter.
I've been getting a little bit back into Twitter
since it seems like it might be picked up by Elon Musk,
who may or may be probably going to do a better job
of not censoring people,
which makes you kind of question the whole gig.
So Twitter, the Graham, Facebook,
we're on there, Echoes at Echo, Charles,
I'm at Jocko'willing.
Of course, you got to watch out for that algorithm,
because it will catch you.
And the reason I know it'll catch you
is because what I cheat when I go in my ice bath,
kind of cheat when I go in my ice bath,
I will look at the Instagram or some social media
when I'm in there and time just goes by.
You're like, oh, it's been six minutes,
how did that happen?
Oh, because my brain was captured.
Yeah, yeah, sedated.
So that's a good rule of thumb.
You can only look at social media
when you're in some uncomfortable scenario,
but get into a wall squat.
And as long as you can hold it, you can scroll.
Yeah.
You know, you get seven minutes, cool.
You know what I'm saying?
Go, could you hang off a pull-up bar?
No, because you need your hand to scroll.
Maybe you could.
What other, what's another crappy position to get in?
Ice bath for sure.
Talking to you.
Ice bath, yeah, you could sit there
and have to talk to me.
You a little frustrated today?
What was the frustration about?
I wasn't frustrated today.
No, no, no, I can tell.
That was yesterday.
No, you were roid raging.
I wasn't roid raging today, that was yesterday.
Hoi.
Cause you took it upon yourself to interrupt me
in the morning, by the way.
In the middle of my workout with some nonsense.
But you responded during a workout.
Yeah, that's true.
Is that a good move you think?
No, no, I know now, yeah, no.
Bad move, terrible.
What was the trigger statement that I made?
No, no, I'd have to go through the thread,
but there, cause there was a few.
Multiple.
So I made multiple comments that I did.
Multiple, well, yeah, it's true, true story.
Then you have to come here and sit here
and talk to me for a long period of time.
So I should have been scrolling social media
during that time.
It's mental anguish.
Yep.
Ha ha, check.
All right, well, watch out for that algorithm
unless I'm verbally abusing you,
then it could be a nice little escape.
See, that's what you need.
You need a little escape from my abusive personality,
you know, apparently.
The world makes sense.
You're going to train after this?
I don't know, 50, 50.
I have another engagement that I have.
You knew we were doing this today.
Yeah, I have my clothes, everything.
Okay.
All right.
Okay, well, hey, that's on, you know,
that's on the world, you know?
Guess it's not your fault.
See your whole tone right now.
Yeah, see, that's what that's it.
This is part of what I'm talking about.
That's the abusive.
It's part of it.
It's part of it, yeah, it is, yes.
Check.
All right, well, once again,
thanks to Jeff and Pete for coming down.
Thanks for what you guys have done for Jiu-Jitsu.
Oh, we stoked to have you all around.
And thanks for helping so many people out
by giving them the gift.
And it is a gift of Jiu-Jitsu.
So thanks, fellas.
And I also want to thank our service members
from the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard.
We get to train Jiu-Jitsu because you all protect us.
And by the way, all of you in the service,
if you get a chance,
and actually you should make a chance,
go find a way to train Jiu-Jitsu.
It's going to help you in everything that you do.
Same goes for the rest of our police and law enforcement
and firefighters and paramedics, EMTs, dispatchers,
correctional, officers, border patrol, secret service,
all first responders.
Thanks for protecting us and keeping us safe
so that we can live our lives.
And same thing, guess what?
Please, please go out and start training Jiu-Jitsu
if you don't already.
It can save your life.
And everyone else out there,
guess what I'm going to say?
The same thing.
If you're training Jiu-Jitsu right now, cool.
Keep training.
And if you're not, go find a Jiu-Jitsu Academy
and go train Jiu-Jitsu.
And until next time, the ZECO and JAKO, out.